=== p1
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
DEED FRAUD AND 
RELATED SCHEMES 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
September 2026 

=== p2
 
 
 
State of New Jersey 
COMMISSION OF INVESTIGATION 
50 WEST STATE STREET 
PO Box - 045 
TRENTON, NEW JERSEY 08625-0045 
 Telephone (609) 292-6767 
Fax (609) 633-7366 
 
New Jersey Is An Equal Opportunity Employer ~ Printed on Recyclable Paper 
John P. Lacey 
Chair 
Kevin R. Reina 
A. Todd Mayo 
Alan J. Markman 
Commissioners 
 
 
Bruce P. Keller 
Executive Director 
 
 
 
 
September 2026 
 
 
Governor Mikie Sherrill 
The President and Members of the Senate 
The Speaker and Members of the General Assembly 
 
 
The State Commission of Investigation, pursuant to N.J.S.A. 52:9M-1 to -20, submits its report of 
findings and recommendations in connection with an investigation into deed fraud and related 
schemes in New Jersey. 
 
 
Respectfully, 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
John P. Lacey  
                             Alan J. Markman  
 
 
Chair  
 
 
 
     Commissioner 
 
 
 
 
 
 
          
Kevin R. Reina                                         A. Todd Mayo 
Commissioner                                           Commissioner 
 
 

=== p3
 
 
1 
 
 
Table of Contents 
I.  
Executive Summary ........................................................................................ 2  
II.  
Background .................................................................................................... 11 
A. How Deed Fraud Schemes Occur  ............................................................ 11 
B. Existing Safeguards Have Limits  ............................................................ 13 
III.  
Insights On Seller Impersonation And Deed Fraud  ............................. 19 
A. FBI Data  ................................................................................................... 19 
B. Information From County Clerk’s And Prosecutor’s Offices ................... 23 
C. The Real Estate Industry Perspective  .................................................... 27 
IV.  
Victim Accounts ………………………………………………………………….31 
V. 
Actions To Quiet Title ……………………………………………………………33 
VI.  
Few States Are Taking Comprehensive Action ………………………….35 
VII.  Recommendations ......................................................................................... 39 
A. Strengthen Identification Requirements………………………..………….40 
1. Require Seller Identity Verification By Real Estate Licensees……40 
2. Strengthen Identity Verification Requirements Before Allowing 
Notarizations………………………………………………………………41 
 
3. Strengthen Identity Verification For All Property Conveyances….44 
 
B. Enhance Recording Safeguards And Property Alert Systems And 
Expedite Quiet Title Remedies……………………………………………….47 
VIII. Conclusion ............................................................................................................... 55 

=== p4
 
 
2 
 
 
I. 
Executive Summary. 
Deed fraud is in the news. 
In May 2024, the Federal Bureau of Investigation (“FBI”) issued a public 
warning about land being stolen “out from under” New Jersey property owners. It 
reported that, using a variety of techniques, fraudsters have been impersonating the 
true owners of real property, wresting away control, transferring title, and recording 
the deed to those properties in a new name, all before the victim learns of the loss.1 
This type of seller impersonation is a form of the much broader problem of 
identity theft. The following, vivid illustration of identity theft underscores how 
anyone can be victimized. 
Only months after the 2024 FBI warning focusing on New Jersey, federal law 
enforcement arrested a woman and charged her with attempting to steal the title to 
Graceland, Elvis Presley’s nearly 14-acre estate in Memphis, Tennessee.2 According 
                                                          
1 Federal Bureau of Investigation, Fraudsters Are Stealing Land Out from Under 
Owners 
(May 
28, 
2024) 
(“Fraudsters”), 
https://www.fbi.gov/contact-us/field-
offices/newark/news/fraudsters-are-stealing-land-out-from-under-owners.   Although 
one of the first offices to sound the alarm, the FBI Newark Office is not alone in doing 
so. See Federal Bureau of Investigation, FBI Boston Warns Quit Claim Deed Fraud 
is 
on 
the 
Rise 
(Apr. 
1, 
2025), 
https://www.fbi.gov/contact-us/field-
offices/boston/news/fbi-boston-warns-quit-claim-deed-fraud-is-on-the-rise-.  
 
2 Alexander Mallin & Meredith Deliso, Missouri Woman Arrested in Alleged Scheme 
to Defraud Elvis Presley’s Family Through Graceland Sale, ABC NEWS (Aug. 16, 
2024), 
https://abcnews.com/US/graceland-elvis-scheme-arrest-federal-
charges/story?id=112894578; U.S. Dep’t of Justice, Missouri Woman Sentenced in 
Scheme 
to 
Fraudulently 
Foreclose 
on 
Graceland 
(Sept. 
24, 
2025), 
https://www.justice.gov/usao-wdtn/pr/missouri-woman-sentenced-scheme-
fraudulently-foreclose-graceland. 
 

=== p5
 
 
3 
 
 
to court filings, the defendant created a fictitious company, then fabricated loan 
documents purporting to show Lisa Marie Presley, Elvis’ daughter (who passed in 
early 2023), had borrowed millions using Graceland as collateral. When the fictitious 
loan repayment deadline passed, the defendant published a foreclosure notice 
announcing Graceland would be put up for sale at auction.3  
Eventually, the Presley family was able to enjoin that sale.4 In February 2025, 
the defendant entered a guilty plea to mail fraud and was sentenced to 57 months’ 
imprisonment.5  
The attempted Graceland deed fraud is unique only because of the notoriety of 
the property and the victims. That enabled them to enjoin the scheme before it could 
be consummated. Most victims don’t have such resources or landmark homes. Quite 
the opposite: A New York City press release from earlier this year announced the 
creation of an office dedicated to combating deed fraud because complaints lodged by 
ordinary citizens were becoming “rampant,” “with the highest concentration in 
Brooklyn and Queens,” and disproportionately affecting working class homeowners 
and communities of color.6  
                                                          
3 United States v. Findley, 24-CR-20145 (W.D. Tenn. Aug. 15, 2024). 
 
4 Keough v. Naussany Invs. & Priv. Lending LLC, No. CH-24-0632 (Tenn. Ch. Ct. 
Shelby Cnty. May 15, 2024). 
 
5 United States v. Findley, No. 2:24-cr-20145-JTF-001 (W.D. Tenn. Sept. 23, 2025) 
(judgment).  
 
6 Office of the Mayor of the City of New York, Mayor Mamdani Establishes Mayor’s 
Office of Deed Theft Prevention, Appoints Peter White as Director (Apr. 24, 2026), 

=== p6
 
 
4 
 
 
Industry sources corroborate the effect deed fraud has on vulnerable victims. 
One real estate publication estimated that senior citizens “absorb 44 percent of all 
dollar losses” from such crimes.7 The results of a 2025 National Association of 
Realtors (“NAR”) survey, designed to measure deed fraud on a national scale, 
reported results showing the Northeast has the “highest prevalence” of such scams, 
which are more common in areas with both “central cities and suburban areas” – 
characteristics that readily describe New Jersey.8 
To the extent further corroboration of this growing problem is needed, the 
commercial marketplace provides it. Multiple companies now see an opportunity to 
profit from the potential risks these schemes pose to property owners. They offer what 
they claim is a form of insurance, accompanied by not insubstantial premiums, 
purporting to protect property owners from title fraud. The evolution of this market 
underscores the extent to which the FBI’s May 2024 warning was prescient.  
                                                          
https://www.nyc.gov/mayors-office/news/2026/04/mayor-mamdani-establishes-
mayor-s-office-of-deed-theft-preventio.   
 
7 Christy Murdock, Over Half of States Have No Laws on the Books to Protect 
Homeowners 
from 
Title 
Fraud, 
INMAN 
(Apr. 
20, 
2026), 
https://www.inman.com/2026/04/20/over-half-of-states-have-no-laws-on-the-books-
to-protect-homeowners-from-title-fraud/.  
 
8 Nat’l Ass’n of Realtors, 2025 Deed & Title Fraud Survey Report (Sept. 23, 2025) 
(“NAR Survey”), https://www.nar.realtor/sites/default/files/2025-09/2025-deed-and-
title-fraud-survey-report-09-23-2025.pdf. The NAR defines the “Northeast” region to 
include Connecticut, Maine, Massachusetts, New Hampshire, New Jersey, New York, 
Pennsylvania, Rhode Island, and Vermont. https://www.nar.realtor/research-and-
statistics/housing-statistics/map-of-existing-home-sales-regions.   
 

=== p7
 
 
5 
 
 
The FBI warning and related developments led the New Jersey State 
Commission of Investigation (the “SCI”), which investigates allegations of fraud, 
waste and abuse, to look further into seller impersonation and deed fraud in New 
Jersey, pursuant to its statutory mandate to examine matters affecting the public 
peace, public safety, and public justice.9 Starting in the Fall of 2025, its inquiries 
ultimately involved over 65 interviews and included individuals from all twenty-one 
county clerk’s offices and prosecutor’s offices across the State. Professionals in the 
real estate industry and knowledgeable parties from other states and entities that 
have begun to address what is a nationwide problem also were included. 
The SCI’s investigation corroborated the FBI warning: New Jersey property 
owners have been, and in increasing numbers are being, victimized by deed fraud. 
Although the extent of the problem varies across counties, a growing number of 
property owners have contacted county clerk and law enforcement offices to report 
fraudulent transfers.  
The details of deed-related frauds vary, but, starting with identity theft, 
generally involve individuals falsely claiming to be the owners of certain real 
property. Then, through a variety of techniques, including but not limited to: (i) 
creating a false sense of urgency and other social engineering tricks; (ii) insisting on 
remote closings and wire transfers of funds; and (iii) relying on fraudulent 
notarizations or duped notaries, are able to accomplish title transfers to usually, but 
                                                          
9 N.J.S.A. 52:9M-2. 
 

=== p8
 
 
6 
 
 
not always, unsuspecting buyers all before the real owner discovers – and is able to 
stop – the fraud. 
This type of fraud also can have ripple effects: Even though the genuine 
property owner is the principal victim, other victims can include an unwitting 
purchaser, title companies, escrow agents, and downstream lenders.  
Many attribute the increasing problem to the 2020 pandemic, which led to an 
uptick in remote real estate closings. The reduction in face-to-face real estate 
transactions, from the initial stages on, has made it more difficult for many in the 
process to detect potential frauds, making it easier to impersonate legitimate 
property owners and submit fraudulent instruments for recording. The concurrent 
expansion in online access to land records and other personal information also has 
contributed to the rise in this and other identity frauds.  
The raw number of seller impersonation frauds may still be relatively low, but 
are increasing. Worse still, each individual victim generally suffers enormously. 
Whether the scam involves title to developed or undeveloped land, it often results in 
the loss of a victim’s most valuable asset.  
This problem has not escaped the attention of the New Jersey Legislature. Bills 
have been introduced by several members that would address deed fraud and related 
harms in various ways: 
 A2072 would require (i) any deed submitted for recording to be accompanied 
by an affidavit of title, and (ii) after recordation, county clerks to notify the 
transferor that a deed has been recorded affecting their property. No action 

=== p9
 
 
7 
 
 
has been taken on the bill since it was introduced and referred to the 
Assembly Housing Committee in January 2026; 
 A1846/S1611 focuses on quitclaim deeds which, by their nature, provide no 
representation of ownership.10 Instead, the transferor makes no warranties 
of title, but simply conveys whatever ownership the transferor may have. 
This bill would authorize a property owner to request notification and a 
delay in recordation of a quitclaim deed that is submitted for recording on 
the owner’s property. Both bills were introduced in January 2026, but no 
action has occurred since;  
 S848 requires all county recording officers to establish a property alert 
service (“PAS”) to notify a participating property owner, within seven days 
of recording, whenever a lien, deed, or any other document that affects the 
owner’s property has been recorded. The bill has not moved since it was 
first introduced and referred to the Senate Community and Urban Affairs 
Committee in January 2026;11  
 A5289, introduced in June 2026, would authorize any federal, State, or local 
government entity to obtain a stay of any proceeding to recover possession 
of, or quiet title to, real property involving a residence, if there is a pending 
                                                          
10 N.J.S.A. 46:5-1 et seq. (governing conveyances by quitclaim deeds).  
 
11 Although details may vary, a PAS is designed to notify registered owners of 
documents recorded under their names or for their properties. As of the date of this 
report, 19 out of 21 New Jersey counties have implemented a PAS, but they are 
neither statutorily required, nor are they uniform in their operation. See discussion 
infra at pp. 13-16. 
 

=== p10
 
 
8 
 
 
good faith investigation into the theft or fraud in the title to, or the 
financing of, that property; and 
 A4017/S399 and A4377/S401, require limited liability companies (LLCs) to 
disclose ownership information of the company when filing a deed for 
certain residential properties.  
There are virtues to each of these individual proposals, but the problem of deed 
fraud, like the broader problem of identity theft, is multi-faceted and requires a 
coordinated approach. This report offers a more comprehensive view of the seller 
impersonation and deed fraud problem by examining it in some detail. That provides 
the basis for a series of recommendations intended to help reduce and thwart the 
existing risks. 
A general consensus exists among those aware of the growing problem of seller 
impersonation and deed fraud that one effective response would be to enhance the 
voluntary registries on which the PASs are based. They already exist in most counties 
in New Jersey, and automatically provide participating owners notice of any 
transactions involving title to their registered property.12 One enhancement would be 
to provide a property owner who registers with the option of imposing a freeze on any 
subsequent transfers of title, much like the way consumers voluntarily can register 
with the three major credit agencies to impose a freeze on their credit records. 
                                                          
12 New Jersey counties are not alone in having adopted at least a PAS. Counties in 
New York, Massachusetts, Illinois, California, Florida, Texas and Arizona have 
similar systems in place. 

=== p11
 
 
9 
 
 
Access to one’s credit would appear to be something most people need more 
frequently than the need to transfer title to property. Properly structured, the ability 
to impose such a freeze, or “lock,” should not impose an undue burden on either 
property owners or county clerks, especially if any authorizing legislation accounted 
for required transfers by operation of law.13 Further protection could be added by 
prohibiting the freeze from being lifted without the use of a two-factor authentication 
system that commonly is required in connection with credit freezes and many other 
banking and retail transactions. 
A variation on that approach would be to couple the voluntary registration and 
alert system with, if not a freeze, an extended recordation period. For a designated 
number of days, a transaction with respect to a property registered in the alert system 
would have the title queued up for recordation, but not actually recorded, until after 
notification to the registrant/last owner of record. That would give the owner the 
opportunity to confirm the validity of the transaction before it is recorded. Yet 
another variation on that approach would tie that notice to a pre-closing filing of a 
notice of settlement, which would act as an even earlier trigger for notifying owners 
through the PAS. 
Yet another variation would permit recordation of a registered property within 
two business days, as currently is required pursuant to N.J.S.A. 46:26A-6, but to 
withhold such recordation from having any legal effect until a designated number of 
                                                          
13 Transfers that occur by operation of law may include transfers through probate, 
foreclosure, tax sale, or court order. See p. 50, infra. 

=== p12
 
 
10 
 
 
days after the registered property owner had received notice. If the registered owner 
challenges the purported transaction as fraudulent within the applicable time period, 
it would remain without legal effect until such time as a court rules on the validity of 
the transaction in an action to quiet title pursuant to N.J.S.A. 2A:62-1 et seq. This 
last approach also could be accompanied by other statutory amendments expediting 
quiet title actions for deed fraud in order to ease the burden on victims to recover 
their property.14 
Obviously, any solution along these lines would necessitate a modification of 
current real estate transaction procedures and affected parties should have an 
opportunity to express their views. But to do nothing continues to expose some of our 
most vulnerable citizens to the loss, through fraud, of what often is their most 
valuable asset.  
Other steps also can be taken. With identity theft at the core of this problem, 
requiring enhanced identification techniques, by notaries, real estate agents, and 
others involved in the title transfer process also would help root out attempts at 
fraudulent transfers. Although procedures for identity verification by notaries are in 
place, the extent to which they are consistently enforced is open to question and could 
be further enhanced.  
There is another remedial measure, but it would require reconceiving the 
historical role of county clerks only as accurate documenters and recorders of property 
                                                          
14 Efforts to streamline the quiet title process already have been adopted in some 
states. See e.g., Alabama Property Protection Act, Act No. 2026-536 (2026); Fla. Stat. 
§ 65.091 (2023). 

=== p13
 
 
11 
 
 
transactions (a role often characterized as ministerial, but that does not quite capture 
its importance). As explained below, county clerks are required to record title 
documents that appear, on their face, to meet certain requirements. They are not 
equipped to determine the authenticity of what has been submitted for recordation. 
It is, of course, possible to change that, but putting county clerks in the position of 
examining real estate documents for possible fraud would require providing their 
offices with, among other things, training and resources they do not currently have. 
That said, if properly resourced and trained, enhanced screening at the recordation 
stage would have significant benefits. 
These, along with other possible recommendations, are discussed in detail in 
Section VII of this report. 
II. 
Background. 
A. How Deed Fraud Schemes Occur. 
A typical deed fraud scheme begins with the perpetrator identifying a property 
through publicly available records. Properties perceived to present a lower risk of 
detection until title has been transferred are most attractive. That often is vacant, 
undeveloped land, but also may include vacation homes, rental properties, and 
properties owned by elderly, deceased, or out-of-state individuals. 
After selecting a target property, the perpetrator creates fake identification 
documents, which can include email accounts and other credentials designed to 
impersonate the true property owner. Using that identity, the property either may be 
listed (i) directly on online platforms, as in “for sale by owner,” or (ii) through a local 

=== p14
 
 
12 
 
 
real estate agent. Sometimes, a “buckshot” approach is employed: Multiple real estate 
agents are contacted regarding the same property in an effort to find one willing to 
move forward with a listing more quickly. 
To both speed the closing and limit scrutiny, the impersonator often markets 
to all-cash buyers who are willing to close rapidly and remotely, fabricating reasons 
for being unable to appear in person, such as living out of state, traveling abroad, or 
otherwise being unavailable. Successful frauds usually minimize opportunities for in-
person verification by requiring all communications, signatures, and closing 
procedures to occur remotely, using email and electronic signatures. This makes it 
easier to fraudulently execute closing documents, including notarizations. In this 
way, real estate professionals, title companies, attorneys, and escrow agents who 
participate in remote transactions may unwittingly facilitate the fraud. 
Once the sale is completed, the proceeds may be routed through one or more 
domestic “money mule” accounts to conceal the source and destination of the funds. 
The illicit proceeds are then moved through a series of financial transactions and 
institutions before ultimately reaching the perpetrator.  
LLCs, which can be used to obscure the identities of the real actors behind the 
transaction, may be involved in the transfer process. That occurs often enough that 
their appearance has become a recognized risk indicator. The misuse of LLCs led the 
Financial Crimes Enforcement Network (“FinCEN”),15 in 2024, to issue a Final Rule 
                                                          
15 FinCEN, a bureau of the U.S. Department of the Treasury created in 1990, supports 
law enforcement and safeguards the nation’s financial system from a range of illicit 

=== p15
 
 
13 
 
 
requiring certain disclosures of non-financed residential real estate transactions 
involving transfers to entities such as LLCs or trusts in an effort to combat money 
laundering. Earlier this year, however, the court in Flowers Title Cos., LLC v. 
Bessent16 struck the rule as exceeding FinCEN’s authority under the federal Bank 
Secrecy Act. Although the rule no longer may be in effect, that FinCEN took such 
action further underscores the growing risk of deed (and other) fraud in connection 
with real estate transactions and the ripple effects they can have.  
Pending legislation in New Jersey also would require the disclosure of 
ownership information for certain LLCs in residential real estate transactions.17 
These bills appear to be concerned with the extent to which LLCs can be used to 
purchase residential properties, then turn them into multi-family rentals without 
adequately disclosing key information about the LLC involved, including the identity 
of the registered agent and the company’s ownership. Regardless of the motivation 
for these proposed disclosure requirements, if enacted, the bills would help deter 
those deed fraud schemes that rely on the relative anonymity of LLCs. 
B. Existing Safeguards Have Limits. 
Nineteen of New Jersey’s twenty-one counties have implemented some form of 
                                                          
activity by analyzing information required to be disclosed by the Bank Secrecy Act. 
https://www.fincen.gov/about-fincen/mission. 
16 Flowers Title Cos., LLC v. Bessent, No. 6:25-cv-127-JDK, 2026 LX 177006 (E.D. 
Tex. Mar. 19, 2026).  
 
17 See A4017/S399 and A4377/S401 supra at 8. 
 

=== p16
 
 
14 
 
 
PAS.18 These allow a property owner voluntarily to register recorded properties and 
receive notification when a deed, lien, or other instrument has been recorded against 
the registered property.   
Although most New Jersey counties make property records available online, 
Hunterdon County does not currently provide online public access to its property 
records. Moreover, neither it, nor Warren County, uses a PAS. As a result, the level 
of protection available to property owners varies depending on the county in which 
their property is located. Regardless of the importance of maintaining and 
administering county-level property records,19 it isn’t unreasonable to question why 
a baseline level of statewide protection against deed fraud doesn’t exist. 
As for counties that have adopted a PAS, they generally operate as follows: 
                                                          
18 See Atlantic County Property Alert Service; Bergen County Property Alert Service; 
Burlington County Property Fraud Alert Service; Camden County Property Alert 
Service; Cape May County Property Alert Service; Cumberland County 
FraudSleuth™ System; Essex County Record Alert; Gloucester County Property 
Fraud Alert; Hudson County Recording Notification Service; Mercer County Property 
Alert Service; Middlesex County Property Alert Service; Monmouth County Property 
Fraud Alert Service; Morris County Property Alert Service; Ocean County Property 
Alert Service; Passaic County Property Fraud Warning System; Salem County 
Property Alert Service; Somerset County Recording Notification Service; Sussex 
County Property Alert Service; Union County Property Fraud Alert Service.      
 
Although most property recordings (e.g., deeds, mortgages, liens) are handled by 
county clerk offices under N.J.S.A. 40A:9-90, counties having a population in excess 
of 250,000 may establish a Register of Deeds and Mortgages to handle such filings, 
pursuant to N.J.S.A. 40A:9-81. Currently, only Hudson and Essex counties have a 
Register of Deeds and Mortgages. 
 
19 See p. 47 infra for a discussion of an alternative to the county-based system.  
 

=== p17
 
 
15 
 
 
Atlantic, Bergen, Camden, Cape May, Mercer, Middlesex, Morris, Ocean, 
Salem, and Sussex Counties all use the NewVision-Catalis Property Alert Service, 
which allows users to register a property by entering a lot number, block number, 
municipality, party name, or a combination of those identifiers. Once a property is 
successfully entered into the NewVision-Catalis PAS, any recorded documents 
matching the submitted information generates an email alert.  
In Burlington, Monmouth, and Union Counties, the Fidlar Technologies 
Property Fraud Alert System allows users to enter up to 10 personal and/or business 
names for monitoring recorded documents. Users may then select to be notified of 
matching documents through email, text message, and/or an automated phone call. 
Essex and Passaic Counties utilize the Optical Storage Solutions LANDEX 
Record Alert System. LANDEX permits users to monitor recorded documents for up 
to 10 block and lot numbers and up to 5 names. Users can opt to receive email and 
text message notifications. 
Hudson and Somerset Counties use the Harris Recording Solutions Acclaim 
Recording Notification Service. In Hudson County, the system provides an automated 
email alert with recording details anytime a document is recorded using the name, 
address, lot, block, or municipality name that has been registered. Residents may list 
up to ten properties and names per registered email address. In Somerset County, 
residents may enter up to 5 names for monitoring and will receive email notifications 
when matching documents have been recorded. 

=== p18
 
 
16 
 
 
In Gloucester County, the Avenu Insights & Analytics Property Fraud Alert 
System permits users to enter multiple personal and/or business names for 
monitoring recorded documents. Registered users receive email notifications when a 
matching document has been recorded. 
Cumberland County utilizes the FraudSleuth™ System, which allows users to 
create separate profiles for multiple variations of their name and receive an email 
alert when a recorded document with a matching name has been filed. 
These descriptions make clear that, even among the counties that have 
adopted some form of alert system, there is a lack of uniformity. Some generate alerts 
based on a property’s lot and block designation; others rely on a name entered by the 
user. The number of properties that can be registered also varies. Certain systems 
limit users to a single name, whereas others permit multiple entries or variations of 
a name. 
Regardless of the specific design, one benefit of such systems is that they 
provide affirmative notice to owners regarding any transaction involving their 
property. This enables the owners to investigate an unexpected transaction sooner 
than they otherwise might discover it. By design, however, those alerts are provided 
only after a document has been recorded. Accordingly, they play no preventative role.  
Private commercial entities have noted the opportunity to capitalize on such 
systems: They offer similar post-recording alerts for a fee. An August 2024 Federal 
Trade Commission (“FTC”) consumer alert, however, raised questions about the 
wisdom of paying for such services and the marketing techniques used to promote the 

=== p19
 
 
17 
 
 
subscription services they offer.20 The FTC emphasized that terms like “home title 
lock insurance” are inaccurate because these services do not, in fact, amount to any 
type of insurance, nor do they “lock” or freeze title. Instead, like the county services 
described above, these providers simply monitor transactions involving properties 
registered with the company and provide post-transaction alerts.21  
The FTC took pains to clarify the important distinction between such 
subscription services and title insurance: Traditional title insurance policies 
generally protect only against certain pre-existing title defects. These newer 
subscription services are better thought of as alert systems that offer no legal or 
financial protection and, accordingly, may give a false sense of security.22 It further 
explained that anyone can check a title at no charge with the office where it is 
registered and noted the existence of the type of free alert systems prevalent among 
most counties in New Jersey.23 By contrast, the types of commercial services noted by 
the FTC can run from approximately $9.99 per month to $20 or more per month, 
depending on the provider and level of bundled services.  
                                                          
20 Federal Trade Commission, Home Title Lock Insurance? Not a Lock at All (August 
26, 
2024), 
https://consumer.ftc.gov/consumer-alerts/2024/08/home-title-lock-
insurance-not-lock-all. 
 
21 Id. Accordingly, to the extent these services claim they will “stop” seller 
impersonation and deed fraud, that would appear to be an overstatement. 
https://www.hometitlelock.com/ 
(last 
visited 
August 
5, 
2026) 
(“Protecting 
homeowners with the expertise and technology to stop house stealing”). 
 
22 Id. 
 
23 Id. 
 

=== p20
 
 
18 
 
 
That said, the commercial marketplace is evolving. A related, but slightly 
different type of service offers more.24 It monitors real-estate sites on behalf of its 
subscribers and sends alerts if a registered property appears for sale.25 It also will 
file a document in the office where the property has been recorded,26 providing notice 
to third parties that the title has been “locked” and that owner verification is required 
before any transaction proceeds.27 The recorded notice includes a QR code that may 
be scanned by any party to determine whether the property is designated by the 
company as “locked” or “unlocked.” Under the system, a property remains in “locked” 
status unless and until the subscriber authorizes a change. 
That notice, however, does not actually itself lock or freeze the property in any 
legally binding sense: Others in the transaction process need to voluntarily honor it 
because it has no independent force of law. Still, for a fee, this type of service could 
help provide protection against fraudulent transactions by warding off those who 
would otherwise be interested in the property.28   
Although not as widely advertised or well known, some traditional title 
insurance companies now offer coverage that, for an additional premium, will insure 
not only against pre-existing defects in title, but also against the risk of subsequent 
                                                          
24 Title Barrier, https://www.titlebarrier.com/ (last visited August 5, 2026).  
 
25 Id. 
 
26 Id. 
 
27 Id. 
 
28 Id. 
 

=== p21
 
 
19 
 
 
deed fraud. This coverage, however, varies for New Jersey residents, depending upon 
the type of title insurance policy that is purchased and the date of purchase. A 
standard American Land Title Association (ALTA) Owner’s Policy, available for all 
types of real estate (including vacant land and commercial properties), does not yet 
cover post-policy protection against forged deeds. An endorsement covering that is 
currently under review by the New Jersey Department of Banking and Insurance 
(DOBI) and not yet approved.29 By contrast, an ALTA Homeowner’s Policy, available 
to natural persons and for one-to-four family residential properties and offering 
protection for post-policy forgery or impersonation, has been available to New Jersey 
residents since at least 2021. 
III. 
Insights On Seller Impersonation And Deed Fraud. 
A. FBI Data.  
The FBI identifies vacant land as a particularly attractive target for deed 
fraud.30 Publicly available records easily allow vacant properties to be located.31 They 
provide most of the information needed for an imposter to credibly pose as a 
knowledgeable owner of the property.32 That’s especially true when a remote 
                                                          
29 https://www.alta.org/news-and-publications/news/20260623-ALTA-Endorsements-
Expand-Protection-Against-Deed-Fraud-and-Forgery. 
 
30 Fraudsters, supra n. 1. A recent industry survey agrees. NAR Survey, n. 8, supra 
at 4.  
  
31 Fraudsters, supra n. 1. In New Jersey, property records, including deeds recorded 
with a county clerk’s office, are considered public records. N.J.S.A. 47:1A-1, et seq. As 
a result, many counties offer online, searchable databases for these documents likely 
making it easier for bad actors to search for vacant properties. 
 
32 Id. 

=== p22
 
 
20 
 
 
transaction, quick closing, and a cash buyer also are involved.33 Other types of 
properties that are not regularly occupied, such as abandoned properties and second 
or rented homes, also are attractive targets for similar reasons.34    
Since 2000, the FBI has been tracking crimes committed online by collecting 
information about them through its Internet Crime Complaint Center (IC3). The IC3 
contains information about the ever-growing list of Internet-related crimes, of which 
identity theft is just one. Deed fraud is not a distinct crime category under the FBI’s 
IC3, falling instead into the larger real estate crime category. As a result, no 
comprehensive national statistics specifically track deed fraud or title theft. The IC3’s 
annual reports, however, provide relevant insight into complaints and financial losses 
associated with cyber-enabled real estate crimes. These reports indicate a notable 
upward trend: Complaints increased from 9,359 in 2024 to 12,368 in 2025, while 
reported losses rose from $173,586,820 to $275,110,419 over the same period.35   
                                                          
 
33 Id. 
 
34 Id. 
 
35 Federal Bureau of Investigation, Internet Crime Complaint Center (IC3) Annual 
Report 2025 (2025), https://www.ic3.gov/AnnualReport/Reports/2025_IC3Report.pdf. 
In April 2025, the FBI Boston field office issued a statement detailing rising counts 
of deed fraud nationwide. The FBI reported 58,141 victims and $1.3 billion in losses 
associated with real estate fraud (generally, including deed fraud) from 2019 to 2023. 
https://www.fbi.gov/contact-us/field-offices/boston/news/fbi-boston-warns-quit-claim-
deed-fraud-is-on-the-rise-. 
 

=== p23
 
 
21 
 
 
Moreover, as noted,36 deed fraud can have different victims who may report 
their victimization in slightly different, overlapping ways. That further renders 
numbers derived from the IC3 database informative, but not definitive. Still, because 
the FBI encourages victims to submit complaints that are analyzed and shared with 
law enforcement and the public, the IC3 database and other sources of referrals to 
the FBI put it in a premier position to provide empirical data about the growing 
prevalence of deed fraud and related real estate fraud schemes. 
In conjunction with the SCI’s investigation, the FBI carefully combed through 
reported incidents occurring from 2020 through the beginning of March 2026 that 
had been variously categorized as “Deed Fraud,” “Vacant Land Fraud,” “Seller 
Impersonation Fraud,” and other real estate-related fraud schemes. In New Jersey 
alone, the FBI data reflects approximately 135 reported incidents, with 
concentrations in certain counties, particularly Sussex, Bergen, Cape May, and 
Ocean Counties.37 
The FBI cautioned, however, that the approximately 135 reported incidents 
likely understates the true scope of the problem because many go unreported or are 
categorized under still broader fraud classifications. Nevertheless, even 135 instances 
places New Jersey among the top three states nationally in reported incidents during 
the relevant period.38  
                                                          
36 See p. 6, supra. 
 
37 See Appendix A. 
 
38 Florida had 203 reported incidents and California had 121 reported incidents 
during the same time period. See Appendix A. 

=== p24
 
 
22 
 
 
Perhaps more importantly, these growing numbers led the FBI to analyze the 
substance of the complaints they have been receiving and, from them, to derive a list 
it uses to educate real estate professionals of “red flags.” They include:   
 sellers who refuse in-person meetings; 
 reliance on VoIP numbers; 39 
 inconsistent or suspicious forms of identification; 
 an inability to confirm basic knowledge about the property; and  
 requests that proceeds be wired to accounts that do not match the 
identities provided by the sellers.   
To further mitigate risk, the FBI has recommended a set of best practices. 
These include enhanced due diligence measures, the independent verification of a 
seller’s identity through multiple sources, sending certified mail to the address of 
record, conducting video verification when remote closings are requested, and directly 
confirming notarizations. Professionals also are encouraged to preserve all 
                                                          
 
39 VoIP (“Voice over Internet Protocol”) numbers are telephone numbers that operate 
through an internet connection rather than traditional landline infrastructure. VoIP 
numbers can often be obtained quickly and inexpensively, sometimes without 
requiring extensive identity verification. Although VoIP numbers are widely used for 
legitimate business and personal communications, law enforcement agencies and 
regulators have noted that VoIP technology can facilitate caller ID spoofing and fraud 
because internet-based phone services may make it easier to mask or alter identifying 
information. Caller ID spoofing is a practice in which a caller deliberately falsifies 
the telephone number or name displayed on a recipient’s caller ID to disguise the 
caller’s true identity. See Federal Bureau of Investigation, Investigating Scam Phone 
Calls, FBI L. Enf’t Bull. (June 10, 2020), https://leb.fbi.gov/articles/featured-
articles/investigating-scam-phone-calls. The FBI recommends using a reverse phone 
lookup service to determine if a number is classified as a VoIP number.   

=== p25
 
 
23 
 
 
communications and documentation: These may be critical for investigation and 
recovery efforts.  
The FBI also has urged those who encounter attempted frauds, or those 
victimized by successful efforts, to report such incidents promptly, whether to local 
law enforcement or the FBI’s IC3. Early notification may allow financial institutions 
to freeze or recall wired funds. The agency consistently highlights that timely 
collaboration between private actors and law enforcement is one of the most effective 
tools in disrupting these schemes and limiting harm. 
B. Information From County Clerk’s And Prosecutor’s Offices. 
Overall, interviews with all twenty-one County Clerk’s and Prosecutor’s 
Offices reflected a consensus that deed fraud is a growing concern, even if its 
frequency, visibility, and accuracy of tracking efforts can vary by county. They 
corroborated the FBI’s view that the most attractive victims were frequently seniors 
(often owners of mortgage-free properties) or absentee owners. 
Despite recognition that it is a growing problem, deed fraud in New Jersey is 
not tracked at the county (or any other) level in a systematic fashion. As with the IC3 
data, this makes it likely the true extent of the problem may be underreported, with 
information about occurrences undocumented or anecdotal. Not surprisingly, in those 
counties where there is greater coordination between the offices of county clerks and 
prosecutors on deed fraud, instances were more readily identified and reported: 
Greater interoffice coordination improves both the detection and visibility of deed 
fraud activity. 

=== p26
 
 
24 
 
 
Contributing to the relative lack of statistics on this issue is that deed fraud 
victims do not always report being victimized. That is not uncommon in crimes 
involving forms of identity theft, where embarrassment or shame creates a reluctance 
to file a report.40 Even when local law enforcement gets involved, not all instances of 
deed fraud are reported to the FBI’s IC3 database. Moreover, to the extent some 
scams are nipped in the bud, they may never be reported.  
Another factor contributing to underreporting is that property disputes 
stemming from fraud or attempted fraud may lead to civil lawsuits, as opposed to 
being handled criminally. The fraud also may not be discovered until years later, 
further complicating reporting. As a result of these and other factors, one industry 
report asserts that official statistics may well represent only a fraction of actual cases 
and that the “true number could be 2-5 times higher than reported figures.”41 
As noted, all but two New Jersey counties now have adopted some form of 
PAS.42 County clerks generally viewed these as a helpful, but limited, tool. They allow 
for earlier detection, but are not designed to prevent a fraud prior to recording. Some 
                                                          
40 Federal Bureau of Investigation, FBI Boston Warns Quit Claim Deed Fraud is on 
the Rise (Apr. 1, 2025), https://www.fbi.gov/contact-us/field-offices/boston/news/fbi-
boston-warns-quit-claim-deed-fraud-is-on-the-rise-; See also Mo Ayadi, Home Title 
Theft Statistics 2026: Is It Really Common?, Title Barrier (Mar. 5, 2026) (Ayadi), 
https://www.titlebarrier.com/blog/home-title-theft-statistics-2025. 
 
41 Ayadi, supra n. 40 at 24. 
  
42 See supra n. 18 at 14.   
 

=== p27
 
 
25 
 
 
counties noted that, despite having thousands of registrants, public awareness of and 
enrollment in the alert systems remains low.  
In Hunterdon County, property records are not publicly available on the 
internet, which advocates contend renders it less vulnerable to seller impersonation 
and deed fraud, and less in need of the notification systems employed in other 
counties. In Warren County, property records are publicly available online, but there 
is no designated PAS in place. Instead, the Warren County Clerk’s Office instructs 
concerned residents to regularly check the property records available on its website 
to ensure no one has filed a fraudulent deed against their property and recommends 
doing so on a monthly basis. 
County clerks also emphasized the limitations on what they currently are 
allowed to do in cases where they may suspect the bona fides of a transaction: Their 
offices are not empowered to reject deeds based on a suspicion of fraud when the 
documents otherwise appear facially complete and properly acknowledged. To the 
contrary, they are statutorily required to record any document affecting title to real 
property that appears to comply with the statutory requirements for recording,43 and 
                                                          
43 N.J.S.A. 46:26A-6(a) provides a “county recording officer shall record any 
document . . .  affecting the title to real property located in the county” provided, 
among other things, it “(1) is in the form required by P.L.2011, c.217 (N.J.S.46:26A-1 
et al.)” and “(2) appears to comply with requirements for recording specified in 
P.L.2011, c.217 (N.J.S.46:26A-1 et al.).” 
 

=== p28
 
 
26 
 
 
to do so no later than two business days after receipt.44 Clerks are not charged with 
investigating the substantive validity of documents presented for recording.  
Some county clerks also raised questions regarding the longstanding practice 
of transferring properties using quitclaim deeds. Even though quitclaim deeds are 
used for legitimate purposes, including intra-family transfers and estate planning, 
they often show up in connection with fraudulent transactions. Coupled with the 
obligation to accept deeds that satisfy the statutory formatting and acknowledgement 
requirements, even suspicious quitclaim deeds (including those between unrelated 
parties and not being used in an intra-family transfer), won’t be rejected.  
For prosecutor’s offices, deed fraud cases are often difficult to investigate and 
prosecute because the perpetrators mask their true identities through the use of 
Internet Protocol (IP) addresses, phone numbers, and email addresses that are 
typically traced back to foreign countries. In Sussex County, the prosecutors began 
working closely with the County Association of Realtors in order to better understand 
the common fraud schemes they encounter. This partnership has generated increased 
awareness among all involved parties, with realtors often contacting the Sussex 
County Prosecutor’s Office directly when they encounter suspicious activity. 
Overall, the interviews with all twenty-one county clerk’s and prosecutor’s 
offices reflect a shared concern that deed fraud is underreported, inconsistently 
tracked and difficult to prevent under existing law. County clerks often serve as the 
                                                          
44 N.J.S.A. 46:26A-6(b) provides that “[e]very document . . . shall be recorded and 
indexed not later than two business days after its receipt.” 

=== p29
 
 
27 
 
 
first point of contact for affected property owners, but lack the tools to intervene 
effectively. Widespread PAS adoption demonstrates a recognition of the problem, but 
clerks emphasized that alerts function as damage-control mechanisms, not 
preventative solutions.  
C. The Real Estate Industry Perspective. 
Professionals from across the real estate industry generally agree that deed 
fraud has been on the rise in recent years. 
Real estate agents consistently reported that fraudsters commonly pose as 
property owners and attempt to list and sell property without authorization, often 
targeting absentee owners, elderly individuals, or estate properties. They described 
these schemes as increasingly common since the COVID-19 pandemic, when 
transactions began to close entirely through phone, email, and electronic signatures. 
This shift reflects broader structural changes within the real estate industry. Even if 
“[f]ully digital closings” remain the exception,  hybrid closings – where at least some 
substantial part of what would have, pre-pandemic, taken place face-to-face, now 
occur remotely – were, as of 2022, nearly 8% of all closings and growing.45 Although 
comprehensive nationwide statistics after 2022 remain limited, more and more 
                                                          
45 American Land Title Association, Digital Closings Increase, but Barriers Slow 
Adoption, 
TitleNews, 
Feb. 
2024, 
at 
12, 
https://www.alta.org/news-and-
publications/titlenews-magazine/2024/february_2024.pdf.  
 

=== p30
 
 
28 
 
 
closings eliminate some, if not all, of what used to be a completely in-person 
transaction.46 
Several real estate agents described receiving regular fraudulent listing 
inquiries. One agent estimated receiving between three and five suspicious seller 
leads per month. Another representative, from a local real estate association, stated 
that attempted fraud schemes are reported to the association by agents weekly. 
Realtors reported that fraudsters often seek to strike quickly by listing a property for 
sale significantly below market value in an attempt to secure an all-cash buyer or 
obtain an earnest money deposit before abruptly absconding.   
Title professionals echoed the view that deed fraud is a growing and 
increasingly sophisticated problem. They too saw an increase in fraud following the 
COVID-19 pandemic, when real estate transactions, closings, and access to public 
records became increasingly digitized and remote. Vacant land, seasonal properties, 
and homes that are not regularly occupied were identified as especially vulnerable 
targets because there are fewer opportunities for owners to detect suspicious activity. 
                                                          
46 Legal changes have reinforced and accelerated this transition to more remote and 
hybrid transactions. In 2021, the State enacted a comprehensive overhaul of its 
notary public laws through Assembly Bill 4250, modernizing a statutory framework 
that had remained largely unchanged for decades. The legislation was modeled on 
the Revised Uniform Law on Notarial Acts (RULONA), providing updated definitions, 
clearer standards of conduct, and greater statewide uniformity. One aspect of the 
reform was the permanent authorization of remote, online notarizations for electronic 
and tangible documents, codifying and expanding upon temporary measures adopted 
during the COVID-19 public health emergency. P.L.2021, c.179. See pp. 38-39, 42 
infra. The bill was based on a 2014 report of the New Jersey Law Revision 
Commission which, in turn, was based on the Uniform Law Commission’s 2010 
version of RULONA, and its 2018 revision.  
 

=== p31
 
 
29 
 
 
Part of the problem may be that professional educational requirements have 
not been updated. Although title insurance agents in New Jersey are required to hold 
an insurance producer’s license, there are no ongoing requirements for continuing 
education specifically tied to title insurance or fraud-related subjects.47 In addition, 
settlement agents, who routinely handle hundreds of thousands, if not millions, of 
dollars each month and perform critical functions at real estate closings, are not 
subject to any licensing requirements at all. Unlike “title insurance agent,” which is 
defined under New Jersey law, New Jersey statutes do not provide a comprehensive 
definition of “settlement agent” applicable to all real estate transactions. In practice, 
a settlement agent is the person or entity that conducts the real estate closing and is 
responsible for the receipt, handling, and disbursement of closing funds. Despite 
these significant responsibilities and the substantial sums of money involved, 
settlement agents are not required to obtain a license or satisfy any minimum 
educational or training requirements.  
Just as the FBI sounded a warning in 2024, so too did ALTA. It conducted a 
nationwide survey that May to gain a better understanding of what it termed seller 
impersonation fraud (SIF).48 The survey generated 783 responses from members of 
the title insurance community across the United States and confirmed the extent to 
                                                          
47 New Jersey law defines a “title insurance agent” as a person or entity authorized 
by a title insurance company that, in the regular course of business: examines title to 
real estate; determines insurability under the insurer’s underwriting standards; and 
issues title reports, commitments, binders, and title insurance policies. N.J.S.A. 
17:46B-1. 
 
48 See ALTA Critical Issues Study: Seller Impersonation Fraud (July 2024).  
 

=== p32
 
 
30 
 
 
which title insurance companies also view deed fraud as a growing problem: 28% of 
title insurance companies experienced at least one SIF attempt in 2023; 19% faced 
attempts in April 2024 alone.49 Title companies were prone to referring these 
incidents to law enforcement offices, which, in 2023, typically included the local police 
department (53%) or the FBI (41%).50 Of the companies that experienced attempted 
fraud in 2023 (successful or unsuccessful), 16% paid claims on transactions involving 
SIF.51   
Title companies also reported notarization issues as a key link in fraud 
attempts.52 The most common notarization issues were fake notary credentials (43%) 
and use of real notary credentials without permission (31%).53 Use of nonpublic 
personal information, such as birth dates, driver’s license numbers, and Social 
Security numbers also were common.54 
There was widespread agreement among those within the title insurance 
community that more needs to be done to combat deed fraud. The majority of 
respondents (91%) provide or plan to provide education and resources to train 
employees on fraud.55 Other proactive steps include addressing fraud more broadly: 
                                                          
49 Id. 
 
50 Id. 
 
51 Id. 
 
52 Id. 
 
53 Id. 
 
54 Id. 
 

=== p33
 
 
31 
 
 
Wire fraud, issues with heirs’ property, and elder real estate fraud and financial 
exploitation.  
ALTA supports the following measures to aid in combating deed fraud: (i) 
requiring training for notaries both when applying for and renewing notary 
commissions; (ii) creating an email alert system to notify notaries whenever a 
document bearing their name is recorded; (iii) giving local officials more authority to 
refuse to record suspicious documents; and (iv) adding multi-factor authentication 
settings to existing PASs. 
IV. 
Victim Accounts. 
The consequences of deed fraud are significant and far-reaching. Victims may 
suffer substantial financial losses, including the costs associated with attempts to 
unwind the fraudulent transfers, whether or not successful. Those costs may include 
considerable legal expenses and administrative burdens associated with restoring 
ownership, a process that can be time-consuming and complex, as well as stressful.  
Individual victims confirmed the information collected from the FBI, the 
counties, and real estate professionals. Victims reported fraud involving vacant and 
abandoned property, forged instruments and deceived notaries, quitclaim deeds, 
remote closings, phony addresses, and the failure to properly verify identities, 
sometimes as a result of mistaken assumptions that someone else was doing the 
verification. A few examples follow. 
                                                          
55 Id. 

=== p34
 
 
32 
 
 
In Gloucester County, the children of a deceased homeowner discovered their 
late father’s residence had been fraudulently transferred without their knowledge. 
They only learned of the transfer when the daughter, also executor of the estate, was 
contacted by the township tax office regarding a fraudulent deed filing. Further 
inquiry revealed the property had been transferred for one dollar using a false 
quitclaim deed. A fake notarization established the impersonator as the rightful 
owner. Using a shell company as the landlord, the property was then leased to 
unsuspecting tenants. The tenants independently reported the matter to local police 
after growing suspicious of the arrangement. Ultimately, two individuals were 
arrested and criminally charged for their roles in the scheme.56 
In Warren County, a buyer was defrauded into purchasing a parcel of vacant 
land from an individual impersonating the rightful owner. Even though the 
transaction appeared routine on the surface and involved an experienced real estate 
agent, attorneys, and title company, the purported seller, who claimed to be out of 
state and insisted on using an out-of-state notary and a remote closing, was able to 
avoid direct verification of his or her identity. 
Shortly after the closing, the defrauded purchaser visited the property and 
accidentally encountered the true owner, who disclaimed any knowledge of the sale, 
and contended the property had been in his family for years and had not been put up 
for sale. The defrauded buyer, who had already paid the purchase price of $60,000 
                                                          
56 The State of New Jersey v. Tony O. Jennings – Complaint Summons Nos. 0811-S-
2026-000104 and 0811-W-2024-000123; The State of New Jersey v. Mark McGirt – 
Complaint Summons No. 0811-W-2024-000124. 

=== p35
 
 
33 
 
 
and incurred additional costs related to the transaction, submitted a claim to his title 
company.  
In Middlesex County, a property owner discovered that a vacant parcel he had 
owned for several years had been fraudulently sold without his knowledge. The 
scheme came to light only when he attempted to pay property taxes and learned that 
his account had been closed. Further inquiry revealed that the property had been 
listed, marketed, and sold by an impersonator using falsified documents, forged 
signatures and, again, an out-of-state notarization. The victim reported substantial 
financial harm, including tens of thousands of dollars in legal fees incurred in 
attempting to remedy the situation. 
In Hunterdon County, an elderly couple learned that a vacant, wooded lot they 
owned had been fraudulently listed for sale on Zillow. The scam surfaced only after 
they received phone calls from two different real estate agents who had been 
contacted by someone posing as the property owner using a bogus email account. 
Because the fraud was prevented, the investigation by local law enforcement was 
ultimately closed and no perpetrators were identified. 
V. 
Actions To Quiet Title. 
It is, of course, possible for victimized individuals to regain their title through 
civil litigation. An action to quiet title most commonly is brought to resolve what 
usually are non-fraudulent, but competing claims to real property, as in the case of a 
dispute among heirs. It can be used, however, to remove any cloud on title, allowing 

=== p36
 
 
34 
 
 
a party to establish clear, marketable ownership,57 and is a possible remedy to regain 
ownership in the case of title lost through deed fraud. Quiet title actions, however, 
can be costly and time-consuming, often dragging on for years before any final 
resolution is reached. For victims of deed fraud, the lengthy legal process involved in 
quieting title to and reclaiming rightful ownership of their property can add insult to 
injury. 
New Jersey case law illustrates how quiet title actions involving alleged deed 
fraud can be tied up in court for many years, leaving victims in limbo during that 
time period. In Wu v. Yin Shan Wu (a/k/a Sam Wu) and Global Champion Capital, 
LLC, a quiet title action arose from a dispute between two brothers over an alleged 
fraudulent deed for a Jersey City property. The case was first initiated in August 
2020 with the filing of a complaint in the Chancery Division, General Equity Part of 
the Superior Court of New Jersey.58 Almost three years later, in May 2023, the 
Chancery Division made a final determination in the case,59 which was then 
appealed. The case continued for an additional three years before the Supreme Court 
of New Jersey declined to review the case in May 2026, bringing the nearly six-year 
saga to an end.60 
                                                          
57 See N.J.S.A. 2A:62-1 et seq. 
 
58 See Wu v. Yin Shan Wu and Global Champion Capital, LLC, Docket No. HUD-C-
000157-20 (May 22, 2023). 
 
59 Id. 
 

=== p37
 
 
35 
 
 
Similarly, in Phoenix Pinelands Corp. v. Davidoff, the State itself spent ten 
years tied up in litigation over the title to seven State-owned Pinelands parcels.61 
Phoenix Pinelands Corporation – an adjoining sand-and-gravel mine operator with 
no actual interest in the parcels – spent over $1 million and two decades searching 
centuries-old deeds, buying up quitclaim interests from obscure heirs of long-dead 
record owners and secretly having the local tax assessor erase the State’s parcels from 
the municipal tax map, all in an ultimately unsuccessful effort to establish the 
“peaceable possession” required to bring a statutory quiet title action against the 
State under N.J.S.A. 2A:62-1 and 2A:62-2.62 The case, initiated in 2011, did not reach 
a final conclusion until December 2021, when the Supreme Court of New Jersey 
denied a petition for certification.63 
VI. 
Few States Are Taking Comprehensive Action. 
To the extent New Jersey decides to take concerted action against the deed 
fraud problem, it will be at the forefront. Few other states are considering 
comprehensive steps to combat it. Three exceptions are Virginia, Tennessee and 
Maine. 
                                                          
60 See Richard Wu v. Yin Shan Wu, 2025 N.J. Super. Unpub. LEXIS 865 (N.J. 
Super. Ct. App. Div. May 27, 2025); Wu v. Yin Shan Wu, 264 N.J. 50 (N.J., May 18, 
2026). 
 
61 See Phoenix Pinelands Corp. v. Davidoff, Docket No. C-000246-11; Phoenix 
Pinelands Corp. v. Davidoff, 467 N.J. Super. 532 (Super. App. Div. 2021). 
 
62 Phoenix Pinelands Corp. v. Davidoff, 467 N.J. Super. 532 (App. Div. 2021). 
 
63 Id. 
 

=== p38
 
 
36 
 
 
Virginia now is reviewing a property “title freeze” system, along with a “victim 
remedies package” that would create expedited court procedures for title restoration 
and streamlined petition processes with standardized forms.64 Additional 
recommendations under consideration in Virginia include: (i) requiring real estate 
agents to verify seller identity before listing or before signing a brokerage agreement; 
(ii) cross-referencing tax records and mailing a confirmation notice to the owner’s 
address of record before a sale proceeds; and (iii) requiring whoever presents a deed 
for recording to sign a certification attesting they verified the owner’s identity, with 
explicit reference to criminal liability if the deed is fraudulent.65 
The Tennessee Advisory Commission on Intergovernmental Relations (TACIR) 
also has been examining the issue of deed fraud.66 Recommendations in a draft 
TACIR report largely focus on notaries, including (i) requiring notary training at 
initial commissioning and at renewal; (ii) requiring government-ID verification and 
mandatory journals for all in-person notarizations, retained for at least 5 years, with 
specific required fields (date/time, document description, signer info, ID evidence 
used, fees); (iii) raising notary surety bonds; (iv) requiring criminal background 
checks for notary applicants; and (v) criminalizing notary impersonation.67 TACIR 
                                                          
64 Deed Fraud Study Final Report: Prepared in Response to Virginia Senate Bill 
1270 and House Bill 2396, Virginia Center for Housing Research (November 2025); 
Appendix B. 
 
65 Id.  
 
66 Protecting Tennesseans from Real Estate Fraud, Tennessee Advisory Commission 
on Intergovernmental Relations (September 2025); Appendix B. 
 

=== p39
 
 
37 
 
 
also recommends that counties be authorized to establish processes to refer and 
review real estate documents that county registers of deeds have reason to suspect 
are fraudulent.68  
In Maine, the third state to address deed fraud within recent months, a 
legislative commission established to study and recommend options for preventing 
and remedying deed fraud issued a final report in December 2025.69 It too noted the 
absence of concrete data, but concluded that deed/seller impersonation fraud is a real 
and growing problem both in Maine and nationwide. 
It proposed, as a first line of defense, those involved in the property listing and 
closing process be required to verify the identity of persons selling property in all real 
estate transactions.70 Additional recommendations included: (i) municipalities 
ensuring the addresses they maintain for property tax purposes accurately reflect the 
current addresses of property owners because such records help to verify the identity 
of those listing property for sale; and (ii) enacting legislation to expedite ways to 
recapture fraudulently transferred property by nullifying the fraudulent deed as an 
alternative to the time and expense of obtaining a court judgment.71 
                                                          
67 Id.  
 
68 Id. 
 
69 Final Report, Maine Commission to Recommend Methods for Preventing Deed 
Fraud in the State (December 2025); Appendix B. 
 
70 Id. 
 
71 Id. 

=== p40
 
 
38 
 
 
The SCI’s investigation did not reveal any other state-specific comprehensive 
effort to address deed fraud. But, as this report was being finalized, the National 
Conference of Commissioners on Uniform State Laws (“ULC”) issued a discussion 
draft for a proposed “Deed Fraud Act” (“ULC Draft”).72 The prefatory note to the ULC 
Draft echoes the findings in this report: “Title fraud . . . has become an increasingly 
common and serious problem across the United States” and, although a fraudulently 
obtained and recorded deed is void and conveys no interest, even a forged deed can 
cloud title, disrupt marketability and triggers often expensive and time-consuming 
litigation to resolve.73  
To address those problems, the ULC Draft proposes legislation that, among 
other things, combines: (i) what would amount to an expedited quiet title proceeding 
for deed fraud; (ii) enhanced notarial and other verification procedures; (iii) the type 
of PASs described in this report; and (iv) a title-freeze mechanism calibrated to deter 
fraud while still allowing other types of transfers mandated by law. 
New Jersey previously has adopted legislation proposed by the ULC.74 The SCI 
is not advocating adoption of all, or any part of, this latest draft, which still is subject 
                                                          
 
72 See ULC Draft Deed Fraud Act (July 2026); Appendix B. The ULC, established in 
1892, has provided states with more than 300 proposed model acts ranging from the 
Uniform Commercial Code (“UCC”) to the Law on Notarial Acts (2021 Revised), which 
are among several that have been enacted in New Jersey.  It receives proposed topics 
for legislation from a variety of sources and, if approved, creates a ULC Drafting 
Committee. 
 
73 Id.  
 
74 Through the New Jersey Law Revision Commission, New Jersey has enacted 
multiple ULC proposals, including, in addition to RULONA, the Uniform Adult 

=== p41
 
 
39 
 
 
to review and comment as part of the ULC’s own processes.75 The ULC intends to 
expedite its normal processes for review and approval of the proposed Deed Fraud 
Act: It views the issue as a very serious problem.  
Also notable is the degree to which the ULC Draft corroborates, nationwide, 
the SCI’s findings regarding the factors contributing to the problem and offers specific 
legislative language to address them. State legislatures do not have to wait for 
proposed ULC model bills to be finalized before taking action to incorporate versions 
of various provisions, especially if there is agreement that a particular issue is, in 
fact, urgent enough to warrant prompt action. 
VII. 
Recommendations.  
The several bills pending in the Legislature addressing deed fraud reflect 
growing recognition that New Jersey’s current property recording and verification 
practices simply were not designed to address the circumstances contributing to 
                                                          
Guardianship and Protective Proceedings Jurisdiction Act, the Uniform Anatomical 
Gift Act, the Uniform Child Custody Jurisdiction and Enforcement Act, the Uniform 
Electronic Transactions Act, the Uniform Foreign Money Claims Act, the Uniform 
Interstate Depositions and Discovery Act, the Uniform Interstate Family Support 
Act, the Revised Uniform Limited Liability Company Act, the Uniform Mediation Act, 
the Uniform Military and Overseas Voters Act, the Uniform Prudent Management of 
Institutional Funds Act, the Uniform Electronic Transaction Act, the Uniform Trade 
Secrets Act, the Uniform Trust Code and the Uniform Voidable Transactions Act. See 
https://www.njlrc.org/enacted-reports-1. 
 
75 ULC drafts are subject to review, comment and discussion at two annual meetings 
before submission to a vote by participating states. A majority of voting states, and 
no fewer than twenty, must approve an act before it is officially adopted.  After final 
approval, ULC uniform acts are then submitted for consideration by the state 
legislatures for enactment. 
 

=== p42
 
 
40 
 
 
increased incidences of deed fraud. They represent constructive steps, but this 
investigation suggests additional measures to address the problem, reflecting a more 
comprehensive approach, are in order. The following recommendations are intended 
both to deter, if not prevent, fraudulent conveyances before they occur and to improve 
the ability of property owners, county officials, and law enforcement to detect and 
respond to suspicious activity. 
A. Strengthen Identification Requirements.  
1. Require Seller Identity Verification By Real Estate 
Licensees. 
 
Although real estate licensees76 serve as an important first line of defense 
against deed fraud, New Jersey currently imposes few meaningful requirements for 
verifying a seller’s identity at the outset of a transaction.77 In the absence of uniform 
statewide standards, real estate brokers and agents are largely left to rely on their 
                                                          
76 The term “real estate licensee” refers to those authorized by the State of New Jersey 
to assist in the purchase, sale or lease of property. Licenses are issued by the Real 
Estate Commission (“Commission”), which operates under the auspices of the New 
Jersey Department of Banking and Insurance (“DOBI”). N.J.S.A. 45:15-1 (prohibits 
any person from acting as, advertising as, or holding themselves out to be a real estate 
broker, broker-salesperson, or salesperson without first obtaining a license). Licenses 
are required by N.J.S.A. 45:15-9. Imposing verification requirements as a condition 
for obtaining or maintaining a license would implicate the jurisdiction of the 
Commission and DOBI.  
 
77 Although real estate licensees are subject to the New Jersey Consumer Fraud Act, 
N.J.S.A. 56:8-1 et seq., the Act provides that a licensee shall not be liable for 
communicating false, misleading, or deceptive information supplied by another party 
where the licensee lacked actual knowledge of the falsity and “made a reasonable and 
diligent inquiry” to determine whether the information was false, misleading, or 
deceptive. N.J.S.A. 56:8-19.1. 
 

=== p43
 
 
41 
 
 
own judgment, experience, and informal due diligence practices when assessing 
whether a purported seller is legitimate. 
To help reduce the increase in attempted frauds in connection with real estate 
transactions, New Jersey could statutorily require real estate licensees to verify the 
identity of any individual seeking to list a property for sale before accepting the 
listing. This would not seem particularly onerous. Insisting on proof of a valid 
government-issued identification and independently confirming that which is 
provided is not uncommon. One way to do so would be to send written notice to the 
property owner at the address on record with the municipal tax assessor, informing 
the owner that a listing has been requested. The benefit of establishing this as a 
critical checkpoint in the transaction process, helping to detect impersonation 
schemes and fraudulent listings before they reach the market, would seem to 
outweigh the costs of the extra time it would take before a listing is accepted by a 
legitimate real estate licensee.78 
2. Strengthen Identity Verification Requirements Before 
Allowing Notarizations. 
 
Notarizations were frequently identified as another link in the title closing 
chain that can be taken advantage of to accomplish deed fraud. Witnesses differed, 
however, on the weakest features of the notarization process. Some believe that 
permitting remote notarizations, where the notary is in one location and the 
                                                          
78 This would not be a proverbial “silver bullet,” because it would not address frauds 
initiated by “For Sale By Owner” listings on various online platforms.  
 

=== p44
 
 
42 
 
 
signatory being notarized is in another, poses a particular problem for the same 
reason all remote transactions are at risk: It makes it easier for an imposter to pull 
off the impersonation. Others maintain that the bigger problem isn’t remote 
notarization, but the counterfeiting of notarial seals and signatures.79 The lack of 
more empirical data makes it difficult to quantify whether the bigger risk lies within 
these two areas, or somewhere else. It is worth noting, however, that the ULC’s 
RULONA, adopted in New Jersey, permits notaries to verify a remotely located 
signer’s identity based on personal knowledge, a credible witness’s oath or two-factor 
identity proofing. The statute treats each of the three alternatives as independently 
sufficient.80 Moreover, the State Treasurer has discretionary rulemaking authority 
under this provision, which it has exercised to adopt implementing regulations that 
became effective in February 2022.81 
Those regulations require a notary performing a remote act to obtain 
“satisfactory identification,” defined as (i) viewing and verifying a proof-of-identity 
document, and (ii) using either personal knowledge, or one of several enumerated 
identity-proofing methods (dynamic knowledge-based authentication, biometric 
                                                          
79 See p. 30, supra. In addition to the ALTA survey, those involved in the ULC Draft 
also maintained that their research identified fake notarizations as a more 
prevalent problem than abuse of remote notarizations. 
 
80 N.J.S.A. 52:7-10.10 (identity verification for remotely located individuals: personal 
knowledge, credible-witness oath, or two types of identity proofing, treated as 
equivalent options). 
 
81 N.J.A.C. 17:50-1.14, adopted by 54 N.J.R. 268(b), effective Feb. 7, 2022. 
 

=== p45
 
 
43 
 
 
verification or a digital public key certificate) to authenticate identity.82 The 
regulation folds a documentary check into every remote verification, including one 
where the notary also relies on personal knowledge.  
As a result, New Jersey stands in good stead compared to some other states 
where the identity verification requirements imposed on notaries, including for 
remote notarizations, are more lax. That said, it appears very little, if anything, is 
done to ensure notaries are in fact meeting these requirements.  
Moreover, the increased risk of seller impersonation/deed fraud suggests still 
other effective anti-fraud measures could be added: In addition to existing verification 
steps, New Jersey could (by statute or regulation) require the thumbprint of all 
signers to be obtained.83 In addition, to the extent that forged notary signatures and 
stamps are a significant factor contributing to deed fraud, the notaries purportedly 
involved in real estate transactions could be added to the PAS so they receive notice 
of any unauthorized use of their credentials (admittedly, however, this too would fall 
into the “after-the-fact” category). 
New Jersey already requires notaries to maintain a journal of every notarial 
act, including the identity-verification method used, and retain it for ten years.84 
                                                          
82 N.J.A.C. 17:50-1.14(g)(3) (requiring visual verification of a proof-of-identity 
document under N.J.A.C. 17:50-1.13(b)(2), in addition to personal knowledge or an 
enumerated identity-proofing method). 
 
83 California Government Code 8206(a)(2)(G) (“[i]f the document to be notarized is a 
deed, quitclaim deed, deed of trust, or other document affecting real property, or a 
power of attorney document, the notary public shall require the party signing the 
document to place his or her right thumbprint in the journal . . . “). 
 
84 N.J.S.A. 52:7-10.18. 

=== p46
 
 
44 
 
 
Article 6 of the ULC Draft85 would enhance journal record keeping in two respects: 
(i) it would move from a notary’s private journal to a centralized, regulator-
maintained online log and (ii) it would generate a verification key – attachable to the 
notarial certificate itself – that any third party could check against that log without 
needing to obtain the notary’s personal records.86 This logging requirement does not 
itself validate or invalidate the underlying act – neither a log entry, nor its absence, 
creates any presumption and has no effect on enforceability.87 
Were New Jersey to adopt a comparable centralized, publicly-verifiable log as 
a supplement to its existing journal requirement, it would have two benefits. First, it 
would make possible the post-signing identification of the verification methods used 
for a given notarization. That would make it easier, and faster, to get to the bottom 
of alleged fraudulent transfers. Second, to the extent existing notarization 
requirements are in fact being honored in the breach, centralized record keeping 
would seem an effective way of incentivizing notaries to keep better records. 
3. Strengthen Identity Verification For All Property 
Conveyances. 
 
As noted, many interviewed saw a disproportionate use of quitclaim deeds in 
connection with attempted and/or actual instances of deed fraud.88 In addition, 
                                                          
 
85 See n. 72 supra. 
 
86 Id. 
 
87 Id. 
 
88 See p. 26, supra.  
 

=== p47
 
 
45 
 
 
pending legislation would implement a form of the advance notice discussed in this 
report: It would permit a property owner to request notice of an attempt to record a 
quitclaim deed. Recordation would be delayed for at least ten, but no more than 
twelve, business days. The bills are silent on what transpires after the notification.89 
The focus on quitclaim deeds is understandable, but empirical data 
substantiating that they are used more often than other forms of deeds is difficult to 
obtain. Moreover, any form of conveyance instrument can be validly executed by an 
individual acting entirely on their own behalf, with no attorney, title company, or 
lender involved in the transaction to verify the authenticity of the purported 
transferor. This creates an exploitable gap whenever warranty deeds, mortgages, or 
other recordable conveyance instruments are self-prepared and self-executed outside 
of a transaction where a lender, title company or attorney are involved. In other 
words, the problem may be less of the nature of the deed (quitclaim vs. other) than of 
one that exists when any of these documents is self-prepared.  
One response to this is to broaden the focus beyond quitclaim deeds and, not 
to prohibit self-prepared transfers, but to tighten identity verification at the point of 
execution or recording for all types of transfers, self-prepared  or not. Although that 
would not necessarily thwart all attempted frauds, by imposing more barriers for a 
fraudster to overcome, it would increase the likelihood of exposing an impersonator 
and ward off many attempts. 
                                                          
89 See p. 7 supra.  
 

=== p48
 
 
46 
 
 
For example, Texas now requires photo identification from anyone presenting 
a conveyance document for recording, with the clerk retaining a copy of the 
identification presented.90 Florida has piloted a similar identity verification at 
recording requirement in Lee County.91 However, county clerks are not necessarily 
required to shoulder the burden of heightened identification standards for all 
property conveyances. California requires notaries to take a thumbprint in their 
journal for any document affecting real property, creating a biometric record tied to 
the signing.92  
Consistent with this approach, New Jersey could require enhanced identity 
verification, such as government-issued identification presented to and retained by 
an attorney, notary, or recording office. One virtue of this approach, in addition to 
broadening the focus beyond quitclaims, is that it would not seem to impose any 
undue burden on even legitimate, self-prepared transfers (especially those among 
family members or known parties) beyond producing identification already required 
for most other transactions where a lender, title company or attorney are involved. 
Unlike a restriction on who may prepare a conveyance instrument, this would verify 
                                                          
90 Tex. S.B. 15/S.B. 16 (2025) (amending Tex. Prop. Code § 12.001(b) and Tex. Loc. 
Gov’t Code § 191.010(b) to require photo identification for recording of conveyance 
documents). 
 
91 Fla. Stat. § 28.2225 (Lee County pilot program). 
 
92 California Government Code 8206(a)(2)(G) (“[i]f the document to be notarized is a 
deed, quitclaim deed, deed of trust, or other document affecting real property, or a 
power of attorney document, the notary public shall require the party signing the 
document to place his or her right thumbprint in the journal . . .”). 

=== p49
 
 
47 
 
 
that the person signing as the seller is who they claim to be, regardless of who drafted 
the document. 
B. Enhance Recording Safeguards And PASs And Expedite Quiet Title 
Remedies. 
 
There is a general consensus that bolstering the existing voluntary property 
alert infrastructure could prove to be the quickest and most effective step toward 
curbing seller impersonation and deed fraud. Currently, these systems operate to 
alert owners whenever a document affecting their registered property is filed. That 
facilitates discovery of unauthorized transactions, but isn’t effective at reducing or 
precluding them. 
One possible recommendation is to use the existing county-based PASs to allow 
participating property owners to place a voluntary “freeze” on their title, similar to a 
credit freeze. No sale or other transaction affecting the title could proceed until the 
property owner affirmatively removed the freeze. Any freeze would also include 
multifactor authentication to verify the identity of the person imposing or removing 
it.  
Enhancing PASs with a title freeze option could function as a genuine pre-
transaction block. Rather than simply notifying an owner after the fact, a transaction 
would be prevented from taking effect in the first place, unless the owner 
affirmatively lifted the freeze. It would provide those choosing the freeze option to 
transform the PAS from a fraud detection tool into a fraud prevention tool. This would 
in fact deliver what some of the commercial services suggest they provide. 

=== p50
 
 
48 
 
 
There does not appear to be any state where such a system has been 
implemented on a statewide basis, but localities such as Leavenworth County, 
Kansas, and Platte County, Missouri, have introduced this option.93 These counties 
report not only that their freeze mechanisms have proven administratively feasible, 
but also that they are successful and can be implemented in ways that take full 
advantage of current technological security measures. 
For example, in Leavenworth County, Kansas, homeowners can voluntarily 
record a “Self-Imposed Biometric Lien” against their own property. The lien identifies 
the lienholder as “Public,” which, in any title search or bank inquiry, would put title 
companies, lenders and others on notice that the property cannot be conveyed or 
mortgaged without the owner’s participation.  
To establish the lien, all owners of the property are required to appear in 
person at the Register of Deeds Office and their faces are photographed using a 3D 
biometric liveness camera, a technology designed to resist spoofing by photographs 
or artificial intelligence. To later sell or refinance the property, the same owners must 
return for a new scan that matches the original; a matching death certificate can 
release the lien for a deceased co-owner while leaving it in place for survivors. Judicial 
actions, such as foreclosures, and existing instruments like powers of attorney or 
transfer-on-death deeds, take precedence over the lien and are unaffected by it. The 
                                                          
93 
https://files.leavenworthcounty.gov/government/register_of_deeds_office/biometric_li
en.php; 
https://www.co.platte.mo.us/media/Department%20Documents/Recorder/Frozen%20
Deed--%20Self%20Imposed%20Lien%20INFO.pdf. 

=== p51
 
 
49 
 
 
county has structured the system so that biometric data and personally identifying 
information are never held together: The biometric image is transmitted to a third-
party vendor stripped of any identifying metadata, while the county itself retains the 
identifying information but never sees or stores the biometric data. Each side of the 
transaction is linked only by an alphanumeric identifier, so that a breach of either 
dataset alone would not expose usable information about to whom a given record 
belongs. 
Platte County, Missouri, has adopted a comparable model through a service 
called “Frozen Deed.” A homeowner can enroll through a participating title company, 
bank, mortgage originator, or directly through the county office, creating a biometric 
signature via a third-party identity platform. That enrollment generates a special 
lien, which the homeowner signs, has notarized and records against the property, 
subject to a document-preparation fee plus standard county recording fees. As with 
the Kansas model, the lien blocks any transfer or new mortgage until the homeowner 
appears in person for a new biometric scan matching the one on file; a matching scan 
satisfies and releases the lien. Court-ordered actions, including foreclosures and 
transfers following an owner’s death, supersede the lien, and refinancing requires the 
original lien to be released, typically coordinated by the title company. Platte 
County’s program uses a similar data-separation approach: the county and the 
Frozen Deed Service store only property-related data, while the biometric platform 
holds an anonymized, encrypted biometric key with no attached personal 
information, so the two categories of data are never combined in one place. 

=== p52
 
 
50 
 
 
Requiring the lifting of a freeze to be accomplished after satisfying a 
multifactor authentication component would be essential. If a fraudster could remove 
a freeze as easily as forging the underlying deed, the freeze would provide no real 
protection and would risk giving owners a false sense of security. But multifactor 
verification – for example, a combination of a registered password or PIN, a one-time 
code sent to a verified phone number or email address, or an answer to a pre-
established personal verification question – now is a common safeguard. That is how 
consumer credit freezes are lifted and many online transactions now impose similar 
requirements. 
In implementing a voluntary title freeze system, the Legislature must consider 
acceptable multifactor authentication methods, balancing security against 
accessibility, especially for the elderly and those less familiar with digital verification 
tools. The Legislature would also need to address circumstances in which the owner 
is unavailable to lift the freeze personally, including incapacity, death, extended 
absence, or other situations where the owner cannot be reached in time. Separately, 
the freeze process must account for transfers that occur by operation of law rather 
than voluntary action, such as transfers through probate, foreclosure, tax sale, or 
court order, where requiring owner authentication may not be feasible or appropriate. 
The framework would also need to provide for last-minute emergencies, such 
as a legitimate lender-required transaction (e.g., a refinance the true owner initiated 
but forgot to unfreeze in advance) or a time-sensitive closing, without allowing these 
exceptions to become an avenue for fraud. Because most real estate transactions 

=== p53
 
 
51 
 
 
involve institutional lenders and title insurers, the freeze process would also need 
clear procedures allowing legitimate closings to proceed efficiently once an owner 
authenticates and lifts the freeze to avoid introducing delay into ordinary, non-
fraudulent transactions. 
Another option for enhancing the existing PASs in most New Jersey counties 
could be to pair the notification to owners that a document affecting their registered 
property has been filed with a prompt for them to confirm the transaction was 
legitimate. One way to do this would be to create a longer period between submission 
of a title-related document for recording and the actual recordation. In between, those 
registered with the PAS would receive notice of the submission and have an 
opportunity to confirm the transaction. Another would be to use a pre-closing notice 
of settlement as the trigger for notice. Yet another would be, instead of recording a 
title document within the current 48-hour period, to extend that period during which 
the filing has only a provisional status: If, after receiving notice of the filing a 
registered owner disputes the transaction as fraudulent within a set number of days, 
the filing would carry no force until a quiet title action under N.J.S.A. 2A:62-1 et seq. 
(or another resolution mechanism) reaches a conclusion. Alongside this, lawmakers 
could weigh statutory changes to fast-track quiet title litigation specifically in 
fraudulent-conveyance cases — an approach several states, including Alabama and 
Florida, have already begun to implement. 
As noted, New Jersey’s current county-level registries function primarily as 
early-warning tools: a property owner who registers a name or parcel receives notice 

=== p54
 
 
52 
 
 
when a document affecting that property is recorded. This notice-only design has a 
significant limitation: County clerk offices are not required to verify the validity of a 
deed presented for recording and only review whether the deed qualifies on its face 
to be recorded.94 As a result, a fraudulent deed can still be accepted, indexed, and 
treated as presumptively valid the moment it is filed, even though the true owner has 
been notified. The gap between notice and legal effect is precisely where fraudsters 
exploit the recording system, since by the time an owner responds to an alert, a 
fraudulent grantee may already be positioned to mortgage or resell the property to 
an unsuspecting third party. 
Converting registry participation from a passive notification service to an 
active checkpoint would mean a recorded transaction would not become legally final 
until either the notice period lapses without challenge, or, if challenged, until a quiet 
title action or other resolution has run its course. This shifts the practical burden in 
a meaningful way. Under the status quo, an owner who discovers a fraudulent 
conveyance must affirmatively sue to unwind a transaction that already carries the 
presumption of validity attached to a recorded instrument. Under the proposed 
framework, a timely challenge would instead freeze the transaction’s legal effect at 
the outset, preserving the status quo while the dispute is resolved judicially and 
reducing the window in which a fraudster can convert a fraudulent filing into a 
completed sale or encumbrance to an innocent third party. 
                                                          
94 See pp. 25-26, supra. 

=== p55
 
 
53 
 
 
Other jurisdictions have already moved in this direction and their experience 
is instructive. Florida took a similar incremental approach, requiring county clerks 
to establish a free recording notification service and coupling that notice mechanism 
with judicial reforms specifically aimed at fraud victims.95 The Florida law entitles a 
petitioner bringing a quiet title action based on a title fraud allegation to expedited 
summary procedure timeframes, and requires the court to restore a prevailing 
plaintiff to the same title and rights the plaintiff held before the fraud occurred.96 
Florida also directed clerks to provide a simplified form for filing a quiet title action 
based on fraudulent conveyance, materially lowering the practical barrier for pro se 
or unsophisticated victims to initiate suit.97 Notably, Florida’s approach 
acknowledges the same structural weakness identified above: The recording 
notification service does not prevent a fraudulent deed from being recorded, but only 
puts the owner on notice that action may be needed — reinforcing why New Jersey’s 
reform could go further and attach a legal-effect freeze to a timely challenge, rather 
than relying on notice alone. 
Alabama’s recently enacted Property Protection Act98 both establishes an 
expedited quiet title process for certain fraudulent conveyance cases that may help 
                                                          
95 Ch. 2023-238, Fla. Stat. (2023). 
 
96 Id. 
 
97 Id. 
 
98 Alabama Property Protection Act, Act No. 2026-536 (2026). 
 

=== p56
 
 
54 
 
 
owners recover property more quickly and creates preventive measures, including 
tightened notary standards and identity-verification requirements for remote or 
unfamiliar sellers, designed to make fraudulent transactions harder to complete and 
easier to reverse.99 This dual-track approach (prevention plus expedited remedy) 
suggests that a New Jersey reform effort should not treat the registry enhancement 
and the quiet title amendments as independent options, but as complementary 
elements of a single strategy. 
To implement such a system, the Legislature would need to specify a defined 
challenge window (e.g., 30 or 60 days from notice) that balances giving owners a 
realistic opportunity to discover and respond to fraud against the competing interest 
of title stability for good-faith subsequent parties. Additionally, because New Jersey’s 
recording act (N.J.S.A. 46:26A-1 et seq.) governs priority among competing claims to 
real property, the Legislature would need to clarify how a “non-final” or challenged 
transaction is treated for purposes of constructive notice to later purchasers and 
lienholders during the pendency of a challenge. 
Pairing an enhanced, legally consequential registry notice with an expedited 
quiet title procedure would address both halves of the deed fraud problem: the current 
gap between when fraud occurs and when it is discovered, and the current gap 
between when fraud is discovered and when it can be judicially remedied. Alabama 
and Florida’s recent legislative experience demonstrates that this pairing is both 
                                                          
99 Id. 

=== p57
 
 
55 
 
 
administratively feasible and increasingly viewed as a necessary response to the 
rising incidence of vacant land and seller impersonation fraud.100 
VIII. Conclusion. 
The FBI sounded the alarm on deed fraud as a growing and evolving risk for 
property owners a little over two years ago.101 The accuracy of that 2024 warning has 
been confirmed by the real estate industry and other sources, including a general 
consensus among New Jersey’s county clerks that something should be done to stem 
the increasing scope of the problem. 
The increase in deed fraud can be traced to several contributing events. An 
effective response should be similarly multi-faceted. Over the course of the SCI’s 
investigation, several strategic recommendations to address existing vulnerabilities 
in the real estate closing process became apparent. This report lays them out for 
consideration. 
 The SCI recognizes that none is cost-free, whether measured by time, money 
or additional effort. But two things seem safe to say: (1) The failure to act inevitably 
will lead to more harm for defrauded New Jersey property owners; and (2) the efforts 
in a small number of other states to combat deed fraud, coupled with those of the 
                                                          
100 Of course, were county clerks properly resourced with training and funding, and 
were their roles expanded beyond accurately recording transactions to examining 
their bona fides, they could be transformed into an effective deterrent/first line of 
defense. Interviews with county clerks and others, however, underscored the extent 
to which that could not be easily accomplished. Accordingly, this report has 
emphasized alternative remedial measures. 
 
101 See pp. 2, 4-5, and 19-23, supra. 
 

=== p58
 
 
56 
 
 
ULC which, over the next two years, likely will result in a proposal New Jersey, along 
with other states, will be urged to adopt as a uniform state law, will increase the 
pressure to take legislative action. 
This report offers the opportunity for the Legislature to get ahead of the ULC 
or legislative proposals based on other states’ actions and tailor a response taking 
New Jersey’s unique concerns into account. It has the opportunity to take the lead on 
what everyone involved agrees is a serious problem by adopting a comprehensive, 
forward-looking response. 
 
  

=== p59
 
 
Appendix A 

=== p60
Reporting Source
City
State
Report/Referral
Fairbanks
Alaska
IC3
Fairhope
Alabama
IC3
Huntsville
Alabama
IC3
Orange Beach
Alabama
IC3
Auburn
Alabama
IC3
Montgomery
Alabama
IC3
Mobile
Alabama
IC3
Elmore County
Alabama
IC3
Anchorage
Alaska
IC3
Wasilla
Alaska
IC3
Anchorage
Alaska
IC3
Anchorage
Alaska
IC3
Fairbanks
Alaska
IC3
Tolleson
Arizona
IC3
Hot Springs
Arizona
IC3
Peoria
Arizona
IC3
Gilbert
Arizona
IC3
Phoenix
Arizona
IC3
Fountain Hills
Arizona
IC3
Phoenix
Arizona
IC3
Arizona city
Arizona
IC3
Gilbert
Arizona
IC3
Goodyear
Arizona
IC3
Casa Grande
Arizona
IC3
Cornville
Arizona
IC3
Buckeye
Arizona
IC3
Mesa
Arizona
IC3
Scotsdale
Arizona
IC3
Phoenix
Arizona
IC3
Queen Creek
Arizona
IC3
Phoenix
Arizona
IC3
Phoenix
Arizona
IC3
Phoenix
Arizona
IC3
Prescott
Arizona
IC3
Phoenix
Arizona
IC3
Tucson
Arizona
IC3
Phoenix
Arizona
IC3
Phoenix
Arizona
IC3
Chino Valley
Arizona
IC3
Glendale
Arizona
IC3
San Tan Valley
Arizona
IC3
Anthem
Arizona
IC3
Phoenix
Arizona
IC3
Sierra Vista
Arizona
IC3
Sierra Vista
Arizona
IC3
Sierra Vista
Arizona
IC3
Sierra Vista
Arizona
IC3
Sierra Vista
Arizona

=== p61
IC3
Sierra Vista
Arizona
IC3
Sierra Vista
Arizona
IC3
Sierra Vista
Arizona
IC3
Sierra Vista
Arizona
IC3
Sierra Vista
Arizona
IC3
Sierra Vista
Arizona
IC3
Sierra Vista
Arizona
IC3
Sierra Vista
Arizona
IC3
Phoenix
Arizona
IC3
Phoenix
Arizona
IC3
Phoenix
Arizona
IC3
Williams
Arizona
IC3
Mesa
Arizona
IC3
Eudora
Arizona
IC3
Sedona
Arizona
IC3
Sierra Vista
Arizona
IC3
Queen Creek
Arizona
IC3
Unknown
Arizona
IC3
Mesa
Arizona
IC3
Mesa
Arizona
IC3
Bullhead City
Arizona
Report/Referral
Scottsdale
Arizona
IC3
Little Rock
Arkansas
IC3
Marion
Arkansas
IC3
San Francisco
California
IC3
Fairfield
California
IC3
San Bernardino
California
IC3
North Hills
California
IC3
Hemet
California
IC3
Los angeles
California
IC3
San Jose
California
IC3
San Jose
California
IC3
Ventura
California
IC3
Chico
California
IC3
Madera
California
IC3
San Francisco
California
IC3
Los Angeles
California
IC3
Folsom
California
IC3
Monterey
California
IC3
San Leandro
California
IC3
Saratoga
California
IC3
Pacifica
California
IC3
Irvine
California
IC3
Irvine
California
IC3
Irvine
California
IC3
Pasadena
California
IC3
Daly City
California
IC3
Fontana
California
IC3
Chino Hills
California

=== p62
IC3
Sonoma
California
IC3
Van Nuys
California
IC3
Durango
California
IC3
San Jose
California
IC3
Morgan Hill 
California
IC3
Vallejo
California
IC3
Long Beach
California
IC3
Fountain Valley
California
IC3
Concord
California
IC3
Los Angeles
California
IC3
Oakland
California
IC3
Rialto
California
IC3
Nevada City
California
IC3
Santa Ana
California
IC3
Concord
California
IC3
Chatsworth
California
IC3
Lake Forest
California
IC3
El Cerrito
California
IC3
San Francisco
California
IC3
Anaheim
California
IC3
Mendocino
California
IC3
Mission Viejo
California
IC3
Hemet
California
IC3
Menifee
California
IC3
Prescott Valley
California
IC3
Riverside
California
IC3
Lancaster
California
IC3
Pinole
California
IC3
Costa Mesa
California
IC3
Pittsburgh
California
IC3
Elk Grove
California
IC3
Lompoc
California
IC3
Lake Tahoe
California
IC3
Salinas
California
IC3
Georgetown
California
IC3
Sacramento
California
IC3
Carlsbad
California
IC3
Sacramento
California
IC3
Campbell
California
IC3
Los Angeles
California
IC3
Murrieta
California
IC3
Hemet
California
IC3
Mountain View
California
IC3
San Pedro
California
IC3
Concord
California
IC3
Fresno
California
IC3
Gualala
California
IC3
Ventura
California
IC3
Antioch
California

=== p63
IC3
Culver City
California
IC3
El Segundo
California
IC3
Pioneertown
California
IC3
Fair Oaks
California
IC3
Del Aire
California
IC3
La Jolla
California
IC3
San Jose
California
IC3
San Jose
California
IC3
Healdsburg
California
IC3
Pilot Hill
California
IC3
Oakland
California
IC3
Campbell
California
IC3
Citrus Heights
California
IC3
Pismo Beach
California
IC3
Not Provided
California
IC3
Westminster
California
IC3
Twentynine Palms
California
IC3
Los Angeles
California
IC3
Van Nuys
California
IC3
Kirkwood
California
IC3
San Diego
California
IC3
Huntington Beach
California
IC3
El Cajon
California
IC3
Bishop
California
IC3
San Francisco
California
IC3
Sacramento
California
IC3
Pomona
California
IC3
Aptos
California
IC3
Sunnyvale
California
IC3
San Diego
California
IC3
Vista
California
IC3
Desert Hot Springs
California
IC3
San Diego
California
IC3
Not Provided
California
IC3
Unknown
California
IC3
Los Angeles
California
IC3
Sunnyvale
California
IC3
Los Angeles
California
IC3
Pacific Palisades
California
IC3
Grass Valley
California
IC3
Ukiah
California
IC3
Sacramento
California
IC3
Beverly Hills
California
Report/Referral
San Bernandino
California
Report/Referral
Ramona
California
Report/Referral
Orinda
California
Report/Referral
Lancaster
California
IC3
Pagosa Springs
Colorado
IC3
Denver
Colorado

=== p64
IC3
Bailey
Colorado
IC3
Peyton
Colorado
IC3
Castle Pines
Colorado
IC3
Colorado Springs
Colorado
IC3
Denver
Colorado
IC3
Colorado Springs
Colorado
IC3
Golden
Colorado
IC3
Bayfield
Colorado
IC3
Pagosa Springs
Colorado
IC3
Denver
Colorado
IC3
Los Angeles
Colorado
IC3
Colorado Springs
Colorado
IC3
Denver
Colorado
IC3
La Veta
Colorado
IC3
Lakewood
Colorado
IC3
Woodland Park
Colorado
IC3
Longmont
Colorado
IC3
Elizabeth
Colorado
IC3
Larkspur
Colorado
IC3
Not Provided
Colorado
IC3
Littleton
Colorado
IC3
Denver
Colorado
IC3
Danbury
Connecticut
IC3
New Britain
Connecticut
IC3
West Hartford
Connecticut
IC3
Bridgeport
Connecticut
IC3
Washington
Connecticut
IC3
Waterbury
Connecticut
IC3
Gales Ferry
Connecticut
IC3
Fairfield
Connecticut
IC3
Stratford
Connecticut
IC3
Rehoboth Beach
Delaware
IC3
Bethany Beach
Delaware
IC3
Washington
District of Columbia
IC3
Washington
District of Columbia
IC3
Stuart
Florida
IC3
Ocala
Florida
IC3
Boynton beach
Florida
IC3
Davie
Florida
IC3
Gulf Breeze
Florida
IC3
Palm City
Florida
IC3
Riviera Beach
Florida
IC3
Jacksonville
Florida
IC3
Ocala
Florida
IC3
Plantation
Florida
IC3
Palm Bay
Florida
IC3
Palatka
Florida
IC3
Kissimmee
Florida
IC3
Wellington
Florida

=== p65
IC3
Port St. Lucie
Florida
IC3
Cape Coral
Florida
IC3
Orlando
Florida
IC3
Punta Gorda
Florida
IC3
Jacksonville
Florida
IC3
Wimauma
Florida
IC3
Orlando
Florida
IC3
Tampa
Florida
IC3
Loxahatchee
Florida
IC3
Longwood
Florida
IC3
Orlando
Florida
IC3
Boca Raton
Florida
IC3
Tampa
Florida
IC3
Key Largo
Florida
IC3
Naples
Florida
IC3
Miami Beach
Florida
IC3
Pensacola
Florida
IC3
Duck Key
Florida
IC3
Palm Bay
Florida
IC3
New Port Richey
Florida
IC3
Mount Dora
Florida
IC3
Venice
Florida
IC3
Venice
Florida
IC3
Cape Coral
Florida
IC3
Miami
Florida
IC3
Miami Gardens
Florida
IC3
Palm Beach Gardens
Florida
IC3
Sarasota
Florida
IC3
Valrico
Florida
IC3
Port Charlotte
Florida
IC3
Orlando
Florida
IC3
Palm Bay
Florida
IC3
Sarasota
Florida
IC3
Coral Gables
Florida
IC3
Navarre
Florida
IC3
Miami Gardens
Florida
IC3
Fort Myers
Florida
IC3
Flagler Beach
Florida
IC3
Clearwater
Florida
IC3
Riverview
Florida
IC3
Miami
Florida
IC3
Saint Petersburg
Florida
IC3
Belleair Bluffs
Florida
IC3
Jacksonville
Florida
IC3
Cape Coral
Florida
IC3
Navarre
Florida
IC3
Dania Beach
Florida
IC3
Orlando
Florida
IC3
Saint Cloud
Florida

=== p66
IC3
Homosassa
Florida
IC3
Miami
Florida
IC3
West Melbourne
Florida
IC3
Sumterville
Florida
IC3
Naples
Florida
IC3
Gulf Breeze
Florida
IC3
Deltona
Florida
IC3
Melbourne
Florida
IC3
Clermont
Florida
IC3
Aventura
Florida
IC3
Aventura
Florida
IC3
Panama City Beach
Florida
IC3
Kissimmee
Florida
IC3
Jenson Beach
Florida
IC3
Flagler Beach
Florida
IC3
Deltona
Florida
IC3
Palm Harbor
Florida
IC3
St. Petersburg
Florida
IC3
Tampa
Florida
IC3
St. Petersburg
Florida
IC3
Miami
Florida
IC3
Riverview
Florida
IC3
Coconut Creek
Florida
IC3
Ocala
Florida
IC3
Cocoa Beach
Florida
IC3
Fort Lauderdale
Florida
IC3
Orlando
Florida
IC3
Naples
Florida
IC3
Jupiter
Florida
IC3
Bradenton
Florida
IC3
North Port
Florida
IC3
Beverly Hills
Florida
IC3
Bradenton
Florida
IC3
Wesley Chapel
Florida
IC3
Gainesville
Florida
IC3
Merritt Island
Florida
IC3
Cape Coral
Florida
IC3
DeLand
Florida
IC3
Miami
Florida
IC3
Naples
Florida
IC3
Tarpon Springs
Florida
IC3
Melbourne
Florida
IC3
Punta Gorda
Florida
IC3
Boca Raton
Florida
IC3
Naples
Florida
IC3
Cape Coral
Florida
IC3
St. Augustine
Florida
IC3
St. Petersburg
Florida
IC3
Orlando
Florida

=== p67
IC3
Bradenton
Florida
IC3
Panama City
Florida
IC3
Miami
Florida
IC3
Winter Park
Florida
IC3
Margate
Florida
IC3
Jupiter
Florida
IC3
Boca Raton
Florida
IC3
Coral Gables
Florida
IC3
Land O'Lakes
Florida
IC3
Ft Myers
Florida
IC3
Orlando
Florida
IC3
Englewood
Florida
IC3
Bradenton
Florida
IC3
Sebastian
Florida
IC3
Palm Bay
Florida
IC3
Cape Coral
Florida
IC3
Boca Raton
Florida
IC3
Delray Beach
Florida
IC3
Sunrise
Florida
IC3
Odessa
Florida
IC3
Pensacola
Florida
IC3
Orlando
Florida
IC3
Miami
Florida
IC3
Fort Walton Beach
Florida
IC3
Tampa
Florida
IC3
Orlando
Florida
IC3
Palm Bay
Florida
IC3
Port St. Lucie
Florida
IC3
Seminole
Florida
IC3
Ocala
Florida
IC3
Jacksonville
Florida
IC3
Port St. Lucie
Florida
IC3
Winter Garden
Florida
IC3
Palmetto
Florida
IC3
Boynton Beach
Florida
IC3
Thonotosassa
Florida
IC3
Kissimmee
Florida
IC3
Sarasota
Florida
IC3
Sarasota
Florida
IC3
Not Provided
Florida
IC3
Not Provided
Florida
IC3
Not Provided
Florida
IC3
Not Provided
Florida
IC3
Not Provided
Florida
IC3
Not Provided
Florida
IC3
Not Provided
Florida
IC3
Not Provided
Florida
IC3
Not Provided
Florida
IC3
Not Provided
Florida

=== p68
IC3
Not Provided
Florida
IC3
Not Provided
Florida
IC3
Not Provided
Florida
IC3
Not Provided
Florida
IC3
Not Provided
Florida
IC3
Not Provided
Florida
IC3
Not Provided
Florida
IC3
Not Provided
Florida
IC3
Not Provided
Florida
IC3
Not Provided
Florida
IC3
Not Provided
Florida
IC3
Not Provided
Florida
IC3
Miami
Florida
IC3
Sarasota
Florida
IC3
Captiva Island
Florida
IC3
Miami Lakes
Florida
IC3
Not Provided
Florida
IC3
Monroe County
Florida
IC3
Manatee
Florida
IC3
Miami
Florida
IC3
Tampa
Florida
IC3
Naples
Florida
IC3
Winter Haven
Florida
IC3
Boca Raton
Florida
IC3
Punta Gorda
Florida
IC3
Not Provided
Florida
IC3
Tallahassee
Florida
IC3
St. Augustine
Florida
IC3
Pensacola
Florida
IC3
Deltona
Florida
IC3
Fort Myers
Florida
IC3
Collier County
Florida
IC3
Anna Maria
Florida
IC3
Spring Hill
Florida
IC3
Palmetto
Florida
Report/Referral
Fernandina Beach
Florida
Report/Referral
Sebastian
Florida
Report/Referral
Navarre
Florida
Report/Referral
Naples
Florida
Report/Referral
Naples
Florida
Report/Referral
Naples
Florida
Report/Referral
Bradenton
Florida
IC3
Hephzibah
Georgia
IC3
Atlanta
Georgia
IC3
Sugar Hill
Georgia
IC3
Atlanta
Georgia
IC3
Fayetteville
Georgia
IC3
Stockbridge
Georgia
IC3
Johns Creek
Georgia

=== p69
IC3
Snellville
Georgia
IC3
Rome
Georgia
IC3
Union City
Georgia
IC3
Alpharetta
Georgia
IC3
Duluth
Georgia
IC3
Hephzibah
Georgia
IC3
Peachtree City
Georgia
IC3
Dunwoody
Georgia
IC3
Morven
Georgia
IC3
Woodstock
Georgia
IC3
Sugar Hill
Georgia
IC3
Atlanta
Georgia
IC3
Aragon
Georgia
IC3
Woodstock
Georgia
IC3
Dawson
Georgia
IC3
Mountain View
Hawaii
IC3
Kapaa
Hawaii
IC3
Kihei
Hawaii
IC3
Lahaina
Hawaii
IC3
Koloa
Hawaii
IC3
Honolulu
Hawaii
IC3
Kihei
Hawaii
IC3
Kapaa
Hawaii
IC3
Kamuela
Hawaii
IC3
Honolulu
Hawaii
IC3
Honolulu
Hawaii
IC3
Ewa Beach
Hawaii
IC3
Kauai
Hawaii
IC3
Kauai
Hawaii
IC3
Wailuku
Hawaii
Report/Referral
District of Puna
Hawaii
IC3
Hayden
Idaho
IC3
Caldwell
Idaho
IC3
Boise
Idaho
IC3
Hailey
Idaho
IC3
Boise
Idaho
IC3
Belleville
Illinois
IC3
Bolingbrook
Illinois
IC3
Chicago
Illinois
IC3
Naperville
Illinois
IC3
Palatine
Illinois
IC3
Des Plaines
Illinois
IC3
Bannockbum
Illinois
IC3
Country Club Hills
Illinois
IC3
Not Provided
Illinois
IC3
Frankfort
Illinois
IC3
Chicago
Illinois
IC3
Chicago
Illinois
IC3
Brighton
Illinois

=== p70
IC3
Chicago
Illinois
IC3
Camargo
Illinois
IC3
Wheeling
Illinois
IC3
Morton Grove
Illinois
IC3
Chicago
Illinois
IC3
Deerfield
Illinois
IC3
Waukegan
Illinois
IC3
Chicago
Illinois
IC3
Morton Grove
Illinois
IC3
Niles
Illinois
IC3
Not Provided
Illinois
IC3
South Barrington
Illinois
IC3
Rockford
Illinois
Report/Referral
Fox Lane
Illinois
IC3
Gary
Indiana
IC3
Carmel
Indiana
IC3
Patriot
Indiana
IC3
Indianapolis
Indiana
IC3
Fort Wayne
Indiana
IC3
Terre Haute
Indiana
IC3
Dubuque
Iowa
IC3
Olathe
Kansas
IC3
Topeka
Kansas
IC3
Richmond
Kentucky
IC3
Lexington
Kentucky
IC3
Louisville
Kentucky
IC3
Bowling Green
Kentucky
IC3
Louisville
Kentucky
IC3
Harned
Kentucky
IC3
Louisville
Kentucky
IC3
Erlanger
Kentucky
IC3
Owensboro
Kentucky
IC3
Fort Knox
Kentucky
IC3
Slidell
Louisiana
IC3
Lafayette
Louisiana
IC3
New Orleans
Louisiana
IC3
New Orleans
Louisiana
IC3
Shreveport
Louisiana
IC3
New Orleans
Louisiana
IC3
Shreveport
Louisiana
IC3
Shreveport
Louisiana
IC3
Metairie
Louisiana
IC3
Portland
Maine
IC3
Fort Washington
Maryland
IC3
Silver Spring
Maryland
IC3
Oxon Hill
Maryland
IC3
Laurel
Maryland
IC3
Bowie
Maryland
IC3
Baltimore
Maryland

=== p71
IC3
Baltimore
Maryland
IC3
Baltimore
Maryland
IC3
Ellicott City
Maryland
IC3
Halethorpe
Maryland
IC3
Odenton
Maryland
IC3
Potomac
Maryland
IC3
Fort Washington
Maryland
IC3
West Roxbury
Massachusetts
IC3
Westborough
Massachusetts
IC3
East Taunton
Massachusetts
IC3
Pepperell
Massachusetts
IC3
Springfield
Massachusetts
IC3
Boston
Massachusetts
IC3
Boston
Massachusetts
IC3
Spencer
Massachusetts
IC3
Deerfield
Massachusetts
IC3
West Wareham
Massachusetts
IC3
Worcester
Massachusetts
IC3
Nantucket
Massachusetts
IC3
Cambridge
Massachusetts
IC3
Ashburnham
Massachusetts
Report/Referral
Nantucket
Massachusetts
IC3
Greenville
Michigan
IC3
Flint
Michigan
IC3
White Lake Twp
Michigan
IC3
Southgate
Michigan
IC3
Detroit
Michigan
IC3
Inkster
Michigan
IC3
Grand Rapids
Michigan
IC3
Stockbridge
Michigan
IC3
Warren
Michigan
IC3
Warren
Michigan
IC3
Royal Oak
Michigan
IC3
Sterling Heights
Michigan
IC3
Potterville
Michigan
IC3
Grand Rapids
Michigan
IC3
Lake Ann
Michigan
IC3
Lansing
Michigan
IC3
Lansing
Michigan
IC3
Gaylord
Michigan
IC3
Cheboygan
Michigan
Report/Referral
Gogebic County
Michigan
IC3
Brooklyn Center
Minnesota
IC3
Mendota Heights
Minnesota
IC3
Rochester
Minnesota
IC3
Rochester
Minnesota
IC3
Rochester
Minnesota
IC3
Rochester
Minnesota
IC3
Horn Lake
Mississippi

=== p72
IC3
Jackson
Mississippi
IC3
St. Louis
Missouri
IC3
Bozeman
Montana
IC3
Troy
Montana
IC3
Big Arm
Montana
IC3
Whitefish
Montana
IC3
Whitefish
Montana
IC3
Omaha
Nebraska
IC3
Laurel
Nebraska
IC3
Reno
Nevada
IC3
Fallon
Nevada
IC3
Henderson
Nevada
IC3
North Las Vegas
Nevada
IC3
Las Vegas
Nevada
IC3
Reno
Nevada
IC3
Las Vegas
Nevada
IC3
Las Vegas
Nevada
IC3
Las Vegas
Nevada
IC3
Las Vegas
Nevada
IC3
Carson City
Nevada
IC3
North Las Vegas
Nevada
IC3
Reno
Nevada
IC3
Las Vegas
Nevada
IC3
Las Vegas
Nevada
IC3
Las Vegas
Nevada
IC3
Las Vegas
Nevada
IC3
Las Vegas
Nevada
IC3
Incline Village
Nevada
IC3
Not Provided
Nevada
IC3
Trenton
New Jersey
IC3
Brigantine
New Jersey
IC3
Irvington
New Jersey
IC3
North Caldwell
New Jersey
IC3
Kendall Park
New Jersey
IC3
Hoboken
New Jersey
IC3
Cherry Hill
New Jersey
IC3
Short Hills
New Jersey
IC3
Blairstown
New Jersey
IC3
North Bergen
New Jersey
IC3
Haddonfield
New Jersey
IC3
Saddle River
New Jersey
IC3
Belle Mead
New Jersey
IC3
Secaucus
New Jersey
IC3
Stanhope
New Jersey
IC3
Oxford
New Jersey
IC3
Saddle River
New Jersey
IC3
South Amboy
New Jersey
IC3
Cape May Court House New Jersey
IC3
Hazlet
New Jersey

=== p73
IC3
Hasbrouck Heights
New Jersey
IC3
Ocean City
New Jersey
IC3
Pitman
New Jersey
IC3
Branchburg
New Jersey
IC3
Cape May
New Jersey
IC3
Logan
New Jersey
IC3
Millville
New Jersey
IC3
Jersey City
New Jersey
IC3
Livingston
New Jersey
IC3
Barnegat
New Jersey
IC3
Jersey City
New Jersey
IC3
Newark
New Jersey
IC3
Nutley
New Jersey
IC3
Clifton
New Jersey
IC3
Beachwood
New Jersey
IC3
Magnolia
New Jersey
IC3
Trenton
New Jersey
IC3
Freehold
New Jersey
IC3
Whitehouse
New Jersey
IC3
Lakewood
New Jersey
IC3
Sparta
New Jersey
IC3
Paramus
New Jersey
IC3
Mount Laurel
New Jersey
IC3
Howell
New Jersey
IC3
Hasbrouck Heights
New Jersey
IC3
Hardyston
New Jersey
IC3
Branchburg
New Jersey
IC3
Pennsauken
New Jersey
IC3
Woodbury
New Jersey
IC3
Flanders
New Jersey
IC3
Brigantine
New Jersey
IC3
Moorestown
New Jersey
IC3
Fair Lawn
New Jersey
IC3
Ocean City
New Jersey
IC3
Ocean City
New Jersey
IC3
Riveredge
New Jersey
IC3
Atco
New Jersey
IC3
Franklin
New Jersey
IC3
Warren
New Jersey
IC3
Shamong
New Jersey
IC3
Westampton
New Jersey
IC3
Princeton
New Jersey
IC3
Succasunna
New Jersey
IC3
Iselin
New Jersey
IC3
Toms River
New Jersey
IC3
Jersey City
New Jersey
IC3
Brevard
North Carolina
IC3
Princeton
New Jersey
IC3
Morristown
New Jersey

=== p74
IC3
Truth or Consquences
New Mexico
IC3
Cape May County
New Jersey
IC3
Not Provided
New Jersey
IC3
Sea Isle City
New Jersey
IC3
Not Provided
New Jersey
IC3
East Hanover
New Jersey
IC3
Livingston
New Jersey
IC3
West Windsor
New Jersey
Report/Referral
Fairview
New Jersey
Report/Referral
Little Egg Harbor
New Jersey
Report/Referral
Little Egg Harbor
New Jersey
Report/Referral
Beachwood
New Jersey
Report/Referral
Wantage 
New Jersey
Report/Referral
Newton 
New Jersey
Report/Referral
Asbury Park
New Jersey
Report/Referral
Toms River
New Jersey
Report/Referral
Newton
New Jersey
Report/Referral
Branchville
New Jersey
Report/Referral
Stillwater
New Jersey
Report/Referral
Parsippany
New Jersey
Report/Referral
Hopatcong Boro
New Jersey
Report/Referral
Sussex
New Jersey
Report/Referral
Hardwick
New Jersey
Report/Referral
Hampton
New Jersey
Report/Referral
Newton
New Jersey
Report/Referral
Sparta
New Jersey
Report/Referral
Mantolooking
New Jersey
Report/Referral
Hopatcong
New Jersey
Report/Referral
Sparta
New Jersey
Report/Referral
Wantage
New Jersey
Report/Referral
Montague
New Jersey
Report/Referral
Sparta
New Jersey
Report/Referral
Randolph
New Jersey
Report/Referral
Hardyston
New Jersey
Report/Referral
Wantage
New Jersey
Report/Referral
Union Twp
New Jersey
Report/Referral
Jersey City
New Jersey
Report/Referral
Franklin Lakes
New Jersey
Report/Referral
Ridgewood
New Jersey
Report/Referral
Camden
New Jersey
Report/Referral
Forked River
New Jersey
Report/Referral
Montague
New Jersey
Report/Referral
Hampton Twp
New Jersey
Report/Referral
Hamburg
New Jersey
Report/Referral
Glenwood
New Jersey
Report/Referral
Wantage
New Jersey
Report/Referral
Hopatcong
New Jersey
Report/Referral
Westampton Twp
New Jersey
Report/Referral
Southampton
New Jersey

=== p75
Report/Referral
Glenwood
New Jersey
Report/Referral
Lafayette
New Jersey
Report/Referral
Montague
New Jersey
Report/Referral
Not Provided
New Jersey
Report/Referral
Not Provided
New Jersey
Report/Referral
Washington
New Jersey
Report/Referral
Southampton
New Jersey
Report/Referral
Magnolia Boro
New Jersey
Report/Referral
Margate City
New Jersey
Report/Referral
Pilesgrove Twp
New Jersey
Report/Referral
Lower Twp
New Jersey
Report/Referral
East Windsor
New Jersey
Report/Referral
Aberdeen Twp
New Jersey
Report/Referral
Sussex
New Jersey
Report/Referral
Mullica Hill
New Jersey
Report/Referral
Franklin
New Jersey
Report/Referral
Villas
New Jersey
Report/Referral
Villas
New Jersey
Report/Referral
Franklin Lakes
New Jersey
IC3
Albuquerque
New Mexico
IC3
Belen
New Mexico
IC3
Santa Fe
New Mexico
IC3
Belen
New Mexico
IC3
Ruidoso
New Mexico
IC3
Rio Rancho
New Mexico
IC3
Albuquerque
New Mexico
IC3
Taos
New Mexico
IC3
New York
New York
IC3
New York
New York
IC3
Cortland
New York
IC3
Auburndale
New York
IC3
Williamstown
New York
IC3
Goshen
New York
IC3
North Babylon
New York
IC3
Port Jefferson
New York
IC3
Riverhead
New York
IC3
New York
New York
IC3
Purchase
New York
IC3
Kissimmee
New York
IC3
Hicksville
New York
IC3
Andes
New York
IC3
West Islip
New York
IC3
Forest Hills
New York
IC3
Ithaca
New York
IC3
Rego Park
New York
IC3
Brooklyn
New York
IC3
Inwood
New York
IC3
Hamburg
New York
IC3
Brooklyn
New York

=== p76
IC3
Queens
New York
IC3
Queens village
New York
IC3
Manorville
New York
IC3
New York
New York
IC3
New York
New York
IC3
Glen Oaks
New York
IC3
Glen Oaks
New York
Report/Referral
Carlton
New York
Report/Referral
Niagara County
New York
Report/Referral
Niagara County
New York
Report/Referral
Cambria
New York
Report/Referral
Brooklyn Heights
New York
Report/Referral
West Sparta
New York
Report/Referral
South Otselic
New York
Report/Referral
Athens
New York
Report/Referral
Hector
New York
Report/Referral
Northampton
New York
Report/Referral
Theresa
New York
Report/Referral
Callicoon
New York
Report/Referral
Morehouse
New York
Report/Referral
Watervliet
New York
Report/Referral
Hadley
New York
Report/Referral
Germantown
New York
Report/Referral
Rainbow Lake
New York
IC3
Pleasant Garden
North Carolina
IC3
Garner
North Carolina
IC3
Aheboro
North Carolina
IC3
Shelby
North Carolina
IC3
Mooresville
North Carolina
IC3
Morehead City
North Carolina
IC3
Durham
North Carolina
IC3
Durham
North Carolina
IC3
Mcleansville
North Carolina
IC3
Cherryville
North Carolina
IC3
Walkertown
North Carolina
IC3
Weddington
North Carolina
IC3
Weaverville
North Carolina
IC3
Leland
North Carolina
IC3
Charlotte
North Carolina
IC3
Weddington
North Carolina
IC3
Kure Beach
North Carolina
IC3
Raleigh
North Carolina
IC3
Charlotte
North Carolina
IC3
Raleigh
North Carolina
Report/Referral
Kitty Hawk
North Carolina
Report/Referral
Southport
North Carolina
IC3
Not Provided
Not Provided
IC3
Not Provided
Not Provided
IC3
Pegram
Not Provided

=== p77
IC3
Columbus
Ohio
IC3
Amelia
Ohio
IC3
Columbus
Ohio
IC3
Cincinnati
Ohio
IC3
Burgoon
Ohio
IC3
Wapakoneta
Ohio
IC3
Cleveland
Ohio
IC3
Mason
Ohio
IC3
Columbus
Ohio
Report/Referral
Columbus
Ohio
IC3
Dewey
Oklahoma
IC3
Del City
Oklahoma
IC3
Muskogee
Oklahoma
IC3
Portland
Oregon
IC3
Beavercreek
Oregon
IC3
Bend
Oregon
IC3
Saint Helens
Oregon
IC3
Salem
Oregon
IC3
Portland
Oregon
IC3
Portland
Oregon
IC3
Portland
Oregon
IC3
Eugene
Oregon
IC3
Newport
Oregon
Report/Referral
Frenchglen
Oregon
IC3
Beaver
Pennsylvania
IC3
Pittsburgh
Pennsylvania
IC3
Glen Lyon
Pennsylvania
IC3
Wallingford
Pennsylvania
IC3
Parkesburg
Pennsylvania
IC3
Meadville
Pennsylvania
IC3
Emmaus
Pennsylvania
IC3
Forty Fort
Pennsylvania
IC3
State College
Pennsylvania
IC3
York
Pennsylvania
Report/Referral
Hawley
Pennsylvania
Report/Referral
Carlisle
Pennsylvania
Report/Referral
Pittsburgh
Pennsylvania
Report/Referral
Harrisburg
Pennsylvania
IC3
Sabana Grande
Puerto Rico
IC3
San Juan
Puerto Rico
IC3
Middletown
Rhode Island
IC3
Summerville
South Carolina
IC3
Greenville
South Carolina
IC3
Columbia
South Carolina
IC3
Spartanburg
South Carolina
IC3
Charleston
South Carolina
IC3
Travelers Rest
South Carolina
IC3
McColl
South Carolina
IC3
Pawleys Island
South Carolina

=== p78
IC3
North Charleston
South Carolina
IC3
Sunset
South Carolina
IC3
Dalzell
South Carolina
IC3
Anderson
South Carolina
IC3
Ridgeland
South Carolina
IC3
Indian Land
South Carolina
IC3
Greenville
South Carolina
IC3
Hilton Head
South Carolina
IC3
Charleston
South Carolina
IC3
Morristown
Tennessee
IC3
Columbia
Tennessee
IC3
Sevierville
Tennessee
IC3
Bristol
Tennessee
IC3
Maynardsville
Tennessee
IC3
Nashville
Tennessee
IC3
Lebenon
Tennessee
IC3
Sharp's Chapel
Tennessee
IC3
Johnson City
Tennessee
IC3
Jonesborough
Tennessee
IC3
Cordova
Tennessee
IC3
Hermitage
Tennessee
IC3
Oak Ridge
Tennessee
IC3
Knoxville
Tennessee
IC3
Sevierville
Tennessee
IC3
Crossville
Tennessee
Report/Referral
 Spencer
Tennessee
IC3
Denton
Texas
IC3
Missouri City
Texas
IC3
Houston
Texas
IC3
Austin
Texas
IC3
Tomball
Texas
IC3
Austin
Texas
IC3
Houston
Texas
IC3
Pearland
Texas
IC3
Houston
Texas
IC3
Austin
Texas
IC3
Houston
Texas
IC3
Houston
Texas
IC3
San Antonio
Texas
IC3
Cypress
Texas
IC3
Richmond
Texas
IC3
Lucas
Texas
IC3
Houston
Texas
IC3
Cypress
Texas
IC3
College Station
Texas
IC3
Houston
Texas
IC3
Round Top
Texas
IC3
Aubrey
Texas
IC3
Tiki Island
Texas

=== p79
IC3
Plano
Texas
IC3
New Braunfels
Texas
IC3
Tool
Texas
IC3
Arlington
Texas
IC3
El Paso
Texas
IC3
Brenham
Texas
IC3
Fort Davis
Texas
IC3
San Antonio
Texas
IC3
Princeton
Texas
IC3
San Antonio
Texas
IC3
San Antonio
Texas
IC3
El Paso
Texas
IC3
Fort Worth
Texas
IC3
Houston
Texas
IC3
Belton
Texas
IC3
Grand Prairie
Texas
IC3
Fort Worth
Texas
IC3
Frisco
Texas
IC3
San Antonio
Texas
IC3
Rosenberg
Texas
IC3
Converse
Texas
IC3
Humble
Texas
IC3
Terrell
Texas
IC3
Houston
Texas
IC3
Humble
Texas
IC3
Keller
Texas
IC3
Austin
Texas
IC3
Austin
Texas
IC3
San Antonio
Texas
IC3
Canyon Lake
Texas
IC3
Not Provided
Texas
IC3
Dallas
Texas
IC3
Houston
Texas
IC3
Lakeway
Texas
IC3
Rockwall
Texas
IC3
Humble
Texas
Report/Referral
 Mico
Texas
Report/Referral
 Lakehill City
Texas
IC3
Salt Lake City
Utah
IC3
Park City
Utah
IC3
Lehi
Utah
IC3
North Salt Lake
Utah
IC3
Lindon
Utah
IC3
Eden
Utah
IC3
Saratoga Springs
Utah
IC3
Provo
Utah
IC3
Fruit Heights
Utah
IC3
American Fork
Utah
IC3
Fairfax
Virginia

=== p80
IC3
Vienna
Virginia
IC3
Williamsburg
Virginia
IC3
Centreville
Virginia
IC3
Poolesville
Virginia
IC3
Covington
Virginia
IC3
Ashburn
Virginia
IC3
Heathsville
Virginia
IC3
Chesapeake
Virginia
IC3
Williamsburg
Virginia
IC3
Virginia Beach
Virginia
IC3
Great Falls
Virginia
IC3
Virginia Beach
Virginia
IC3
Sterling
Virginia
IC3
Fairfax Station
Virginia
IC3
Manassas
Virginia
IC3
Norfolk
Virginia
IC3
Vienna
Virginia
IC3
Stafford County
Virginia
IC3
Sandbridge
Virginia
Report/Referral
 Bumpass
Virginia
Report/Referral
Catharpin
Virginia
Report/Referral
Galax
Virginia
Report/Referral
Not Provided
Virginia
IC3
Kirkland
Washington
IC3
Buckley
Washington
IC3
Bainbridge Island
Washington
IC3
Seattle
Washington
IC3
Bellevue
Washington
IC3
Bellevue
Washington
IC3
Arlington
Washington
IC3
Lynden
Washington
IC3
Bothell
Washington
IC3
Port Orchard
Washington
IC3
Vancouver
Washington
IC3
Pateros
Washington
IC3
Redmond
Washington
IC3
Everson
Washington
IC3
Sammamish
Washington
IC3
Lacey
Washington
IC3
Sammamish
Washington
IC3
Tacoma
Washington
IC3
Seattle
Washington
IC3
Seattle
Washington
IC3
Redmond
Washington
IC3
Olympia
Washington
IC3
Vancouver
Washington
IC3
Spokane
Washington
IC3
Bellingham
Washington
IC3
Ronald
Washington

=== p81
IC3
Marysville
Washington
IC3
Bridgeport
Washington
IC3
Anacortes
Washington
IC3
Grays Harbor County
Washington
IC3
Seattle
Washington
IC3
Woodinville
Washington
IC3
Longview
Washington
IC3
Martinsburg
West Virginia
IC3
Berkeley County
West Virginia
IC3
Madison
Wisconsin
IC3
Green Bay
Wisconsin
IC3
Oconomowoc
Wisconsin
IC3
Milwaukee
Wisconsin
IC3
Eau Claire
Wisconsin
IC3
River Falls
Wisconsin
IC3
Racine
Wisconsin
IC3
Menomonie
Wisconsin
IC3
Kenosha
Wisconsin
IC3
Keshena
Wisconsin
IC3
Chippewa Falls
Wisconsin
IC3
Teton County
Wyoming

=== p82
 
 
Appendix B 

=== p83
 
Page 1 
Comparison of Deed Fraud Prevention Recommendations 
Tennessee (TACIR) · Virginia (VHDA Deed Fraud Technical Advisory Group) · Maine (Commission to Recommend Methods for 
Preventing Deed Fraud) · Uniform Law Commission (Deed Fraud Study Committee) 
Legend:  ● = formally recommended/adopted by the body    ◐ = discussed or included as a suggested option, but not a core 
recommendation    (blank) = not addressed 
Issue 
Tennessee 
(TACIR) 
Virginia (VHDA 
TAG) 
Maine (Deed 
Fraud 
Commission) 
ULC (Study 
Comm.) 
Identity Verification Steps 
Limit/strengthen notary reliance on personal 
knowledge alone for ID 
● 
● 
 
 
Advanced ID-verification technology 
(credential analysis, deepfake/liveness 
detection, biometrics) 
 
● 
 
 
Mandatory notary training/exam (initial and 
renewal) 
● 
● 
 
 
Require or raise notary surety bond 
◐ 
● 
 
 
Criminal background check for notary 
applicants 
◐ 
 
 
 
Mandatory notary journal for all in-person 
acts, with specified fields 
● 
● 
 
 
Notary impersonation as distinct crime / 
stolen-credential protocol 
◐ 
● 
 
● 
Strengthen RON-specific safeguards (digital 
format retention, seal validation, dual 
authentication) 
 
● 
 
● 
Require real estate agent to verify seller’s 
identity 
 
● 
● 
 

=== p84
 
Page 2 
Issue 
Tennessee 
(TACIR) 
Virginia (VHDA 
TAG) 
Maine (Deed 
Fraud 
Commission) 
ULC (Study 
Comm.) 
Require settlement/closing agent to verify 
seller’s identity 
 
● 
● 
 
Cross-check tax records / mail notice to 
owner of record before listing 
 
● 
● 
 
Recording & Land Records 
Authorize recorder/register to refuse or flag 
suspicious documents 
● 
● 
 
● 
Require filer ID or “known filer” system for 
recording 
 
● 
 
● 
Property title “freeze” option for owners 
 
● 
 
● 
Redact signatures/notary info or restrict 
public access to land records 
 
● 
 
 
Alerts & Notification Systems 
Free property-owner alert notification 
system 
◐ 
● 
 
● 
Notary alert notification system (notifies 
notary when their name/seal is used) 
◐ 
● 
 
● 
Criminal Enforcement 
New or enhanced felony specific to deed 
fraud 
 
● 
●1 (rejected) 
 
Multi-jurisdictional prosecution authority 
 
● 
 
 
Victim Remedies 
Expedited process to nullify/clear a 
fraudulent deed short of full civil suit 
 
● 
● 
● 

=== p85
 
Page 3 
Issue 
Tennessee 
(TACIR) 
Virginia (VHDA 
TAG) 
Maine (Deed 
Fraud 
Commission) 
ULC (Study 
Comm.) 
Statutory minimum damages/mandatory 
attorney’s fees for victims 
 
● 
 
 
Waive recording fees/transfer taxes on 
corrective deeds 
 
● 
 
 
Process, Data & Education 
Recommend an ongoing monitoring 
body/legislative follow-up 
 
 
● 
●2 
Consumer/public education campaign 
◐ 
● 
● 
 
Centralized statewide data collection on 
deed fraud incidents 
 
 
◐ 
 
 
1  Maine’s commission specifically considered and rejected creating a new deed-fraud felony, concluding existing forgery/theft-by-
deception/false-filing statutes were sufficient. 
2  The ULC itself functions as the ongoing multi-state body; Maine’s Recommendation 4 directs its Judiciary Committee to 
monitor the ULC’s eventual uniform/model act. 
 
